<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossPartOfSpeech" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>glossPartOfSpeech</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossPartOfSpeech</xmlelement> element identifies the part of speech for
      the preferred and alternate terms. Alternate terms must have the same part of speech as the
      preferred term, because all terms in the <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic designate
      the same subject. If the part of speech is not specified, the default is a noun for the
      standard enumeration.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
            <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>parts of speech</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm><xmlelement>glossPartOfSpeech</xmlelement></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><note>The standard enumeration is extensible or replaceable. If validation is required, the
            enumeration should be validated by means of the DITA Controlled Values mechanism or
            through processing rather than validated as an XML enumeration.<draft-comment
               author="UNKNOWN" disposition="open">This should this include a link to the controlled
               values information in the architectural spec.</draft-comment><draft-comment
               author="Kristen Eberlein" time="21 December 2014" disposition="open">
               <p>This is normative information (as currently written), and so should not be in a
                     <xmlelement>note</xmlelement> element.</p>
               <p>However, I don't think that we have any mechanisms for providing enumerations for
                  elements.</p>
            </draft-comment></note></section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-glossPartOfSpeech/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>



<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/data concept/data glossentry/glossPartOfSpeech </p></section>
<example id="example">
<title>Example</title>
<p>See the example in <xref href="glossentry.dita#glossentry/example"
><xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement>.</xref></p></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
   <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/data-link-universal-outputclass"/></section>
</refbody>
</reference>

