<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="glossSurfaceForm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element specifies an unambiguous
presentation of the <xmlelement>glossterm</xmlelement> that may combine multiple forms.
The surface form is suitable to introduce the term in new contexts.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>glossaries<indexterm>surface forms</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>glossentry
            elements<indexterm><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm><indexterm><xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element is most often used for terms that also
        specify the <xmlelement>glossAcronym</xmlelement> element. In that context, the
          <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element contains the term in a manner that
        introduces both the term and the acronym, so that later references to the term can be
        replaced with the acronym alone. See the <xref href="abbreviated-form.dita"
            ><xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement></xref> element for a full description of how
        the surface form is used together with acronyms.</p></section>
<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-glossSurfaceForm/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>

<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/p concept/p glossentry/glossSurfaceForm </p></section>
<example id="example"><title>Example</title><codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="abs">
  &lt;glossterm>Anti-lock Braking System&lt;/glossterm>
  &lt;glossBody>
    <b>&lt;glossSurfaceForm>Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)&lt;/glossSurfaceForm></b>
    &lt;glossAlt>
      &lt;glossAcronym>ABS&lt;/glossAcronym>
    &lt;/glossAlt>
  &lt;/glossBody>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock><p>This <xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic defines "Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)" provides
        an unambiguous way to render the primary term "Anti-lock Braking System". The <xref
          href="abbreviated-form.dita"><xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement></xref> explains how
        the <xmlelement>glossSurfaceForm</xmlelement> element affects references to this topic.</p>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="21 December 2014" disposition="open">
        <p>The above paragraph is ungrammatical and pretty darn awful. I suggest that it be
          rewritten and moved before the code block.</p>
      </draft-comment></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/universal-outputclass"/>
      </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
