<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="ditaval-prop" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>prop</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element identifies an attribute, and usually values in
    the attribute, to take an action on. The attribute either must be a conditional-processing
    attribute (<xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>,
      <xmlatt rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13103">deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, and
      <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>) or a specialization of the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>DITAVAL elements<indexterm>prop</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element may do one of the following:<ul>
        <li>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with no <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> attribute specified
          sets a default action for every <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element. It is an error to
          use more than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with no attribute in a single
          document. Recovery from this error is implementation dependent; in such cases processors
            <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> provide an error or warning message.</li>
        <li>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with an <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> attribute but no
            <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute sets a default action for that specific attribute. For
          each specific attribute, it is an error to use more than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement>
          element with that attribute and no value in a single document. Recovery from this error is
          implementation dependent; in such cases processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term>
          provide an error or warning message.</li>
        <li>A <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> attribute with an <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> attribute and a
            <xmlatt>value</xmlatt> attribute sets an action for that value within that attribute. It
          is an error to use more than one <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element with the same
          attribute and value. Recovery from this error is implementation dependent; in such cases
          processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> provide an error or warning message. </li>
      </ul></section>
<section id="contains" otherprops="contains"><title>Contains</title><p><xref
href="ditaval-startflag.dita">startflag</xref> (<i>optional</i>) then <xref
href="ditaval-endflag.dita">endflag</xref> (<i>optional</i>)</p></section>
<section id="containedby" otherprops="containedby"><title>Contained by</title><p><xref
href="ditaval-val.dita">val</xref></p></section>
<example id="example"><title>Example</title><p>See the example
in the <xref href="ditaval-val.dita">&lt;val></xref> description.</p></example>
<section id="attributes">
      <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>att</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>The attribute to be acted upon. <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056">If using a literal
                attribute name, it must be one of <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>,
                  <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>,
                  <xmlatt rev="proposal-13103">deliveryTarget</xmlatt>, or a specialization of
                  <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>. Otherwise, the value should be the name of a group used
                within the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>,
                  <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, or <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> attributes.</ph> If the
                <xmlatt>att</xmlatt> attribute is absent, then the <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement>
              element declares a default behavior for any conditional processing attribute.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>val</xmlatt></dt>
            <dd>The value to be acted upon. If the <xmlatt>val</xmlatt> attribute is absent, then
              the <xmlelement>prop</xmlelement> element declares a default behavior for any value in
              the specified attribute.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt><xmlatt>action</xmlatt>
              <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"/></dt>
            <dd>The action to be taken. Allowable values are:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>include</dt>
                  <dd>Include the content in output. This is the default behavior unless otherwise
                    set.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>exclude</dt>
                  <dd>Exclude the content from output (if all values in the particular attribute are
                    excluded).</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>passthrough</dt>
                  <dd>Include the content in output, and preserve the attribute value as part of the
                    output stream for further processing by a runtime engine, for example runtime
                    filtering based on individual user settings. The value should be preserved in
                    whatever syntax is required by the target runtime. Values that are not
                    explicitly passed through should be removed from the output stream, even though
                    the content is still included.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>flag</dt>
                  <dd>Include and flag the content on output (if the content has not been
                    excluded).</dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditaval-color">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditaval-backcolor">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/ditaval-style">
            <dt/>
            <dd/>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

