<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="reuse_file" xml:lang="en-us">
        <title>Reuse file</title>
        <shortdesc>This file contains elements used by multiple files in the DITA
                specification.</shortdesc>
        <conbody>
                <section>
                        <title>Short descriptions for archSpec topics</title>
                        <!--Also used in "Basic concepts" topic-->
                        <p><ph id="topics-shortdesc">In DITA, a topic is the basic unit of authoring
                                        and reuse. All DITA topics have the same basic structure: a
                                        title and, optionally, a body of content. Topics can be
                                        generic or more specialized; specialized topics represent
                                        more specific information types or semantic roles, for
                                        example, <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement>,
                                                <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>,
                                                <xmlelement>reference</xmlelement>, or
                                                <xmlelement>learningContent</xmlelement>.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="maps-shortdesc">DITA maps are documents that organize topics and
                                        other resources into structured collections of information.
                                        DITA maps specify hierarchy and the relationships among the
                                        topics; they also provide the <ph
                                                rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13004">contexts</ph> in which
                                        keys are defined and resolved. DITA maps <term
                                                outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
                                                >SHOULD</term> have <filepath>.ditamap</filepath> as
                                        the file extension.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="information-typing-shortdesc">Information typing is the practice
                                        of identifying types of topics, such as concept, reference,
                                        and task, to clearly distinguish between different types of
                                        information. Topics that answer different reader questions
                                        (How ...? What is ...?) can be categorized with different
                                        information types. The base information types provided by
                                        DITA specializations (for example, technical content,
                                        machine industry, and learning and training) provide starter
                                        sets of information types that can be adopted immediately by
                                        many technical and business-related organizations.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="linking-shortdesc">DITA depends heavily on links. The purposes
                                        for which it provides links include defining the content and
                                        organization of publication structures (DITA maps),
                                        topic-to-topic navigation links and cross references, and
                                        reuse of content by reference. All DITA links use the same
                                        addressing mechanisms, either URI-based addresses or
                                        indirect addresses using keys and key references.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="addressing-shortdesc">DITA provides two addressing mechanisms.
                                        DITA addresses either are direct, URI-based addresses, or
                                        they are indirect key-based addresses. Within DITA
                                        documents, individual elements are addressed by unique
                                        identifiers specified on the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute.
                                        DITA defines two fragment identifier syntaxes for addressing
                                        DITA elements, one for topics and elements within maps and
                                        another for non-topic elements within topics.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="conref-shortdesc">The DITA <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>,
            <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>, and <xmlatt rev="review-2"
            >conaction</xmlatt> attributes provide mechanisms for reusing content within DITA topics
          or maps. <ph rev="review-2">These mechanisms can be used both to <ph rev="targeted-review"
              >pull and push</ph> content.</ph></ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="conditional-processing-shortdesc">Conditional processing, also
                                        known as profiling, is the filtering or flagging of
                                        information based on processing-time
                                        criteria.<!--Attribute-based profiling, also known as conditional processing or applicability, is the use of classifying metadata that enables the filtering, flagging, searching, indexing, and other processing based on the association of an element with one or more values in a specific classification domain.--></ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="configuration-shortdesc">A DITA map or topic is governed by a
                                        DITA document type that defines the set of structural
                                        modules (topic or map types), domain modules, and constraint
                                        modules that the map or topic can use.</ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="specialization-shortdesc">The specialization feature of DITA
                                        allows for the creation of new element types and attributes
                                        that are explicitly and formally derived from existing
                                        types. The resulting specialization allows for the blind
                                        interchange of all conforming DITA content and a minimum
                                        level of common processing for all DITA content. It also
                                        allows specialization-aware processors to add
                                        specialization-specific processing to existing base
                                        processing. </ph></p>
                        <p><ph id="contraints-shortdesc">Constraint modules define additional
                                        constraints for vocabulary modules in order to restrict
                                        content models or attribute lists for specific element
                                        types, remove certain extension elements from an integrated
                                        domain module, or replace base element types with
                                        domain-provided, extension element types.</ph></p>
      <p><ph id="coding-req-topic-type-modules-shortdesc">Topic-type vocabulary modules <term
            outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> conform to additional coding
          requirements for defining <term>default topic nesting</term>. Default topic nesting
          defines whether topics are permitted to nest and what topic types are permitted to
          nest.</ph></p>
                </section>

                <section>
                        <title>Short descriptions for langRef topics</title>
                        <lines><!--Short description for <anchor>: Used in anchor.dita and dita_spec_23_mapstruct.dita-->
<ph id="anchor_shortdesc">The <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element provides an integration point that another map can reference in order to insert its navigation into the referenced map's navigation tree. For those familiar with Eclipse help systems, this serves the same purpose as the <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element in that system. It might not be supported for all output formats.</ph>
<!--Short description for <navref>: Used in navref.dita and dita_spec_23_mapstruct.dita-->
<ph id="navtitle_shortdesc">The <xmlelement>navref</xmlelement>  element represents a pointer to another map which should be preserved
    as a transcluding link in the result deliverable rather than resolved when the deliverable is produced. Output formats that support such linking can integrate the referenced resource when displaying the referencing map to an end user. </ph></lines>
                </section>
                <section>
                        <title>Code blocks</title>
                        <codeblock id="concept-codeblock">&lt;concept id="concept"&gt;
 &lt;title&gt;Introduction to Bird Calling&lt;/title&gt;
 &lt;shortdesc&gt;If you wish to attract more birds to your Acme Bird Feeder,
learn the art of bird calling. Bird calling is an efficient way
to alert more birds to the presence of your bird feeder.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
 &lt;conbody&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;Bird calling requires learning:&lt;/p&gt;
   &lt;ul&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Popular and classical bird songs&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;How to whistle like a bird&lt;/li&gt;
   &lt;/ul&gt;
 &lt;/conbody&gt;
&lt;/concept&gt;</codeblock>
                </section>
                <section>
                        <title>Lists</title>
                        <ul id="cascading-attributes">
                                <li><xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>product</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>,
                                        <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>props</xmlatt> and any attribute specialized from
                                                <xmlatt>props</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>print</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>search</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>format</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>type</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>,
                                                <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt></li>
                                <li><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt></li>
                                <li rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13059"><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></li>
                        </ul>
                        <dl>
                                <dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13103" id="deliveryTarget">
                                        <dt><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt></dt>
                                        <dd>The intended delivery target of the content, for example
            "html", "pdf", or "epub". This attribute is a replacement for the now deprecated
              <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute.<p>The <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute is
              specialized from the <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute. It is defined in the
              deliveryTargetAttDomain, which is integrated into all OASIS-provided document-type
              shells. If this domain is not integrated into a given document-type shell, the
                <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> attribute will not be available.</p></dd>
                                </dlentry>
                        </dl>
                        <dl id="cascade-values">
                                <dlentry>
                                        <dt>cascade="merge"</dt>
                                        <dd>The metadata attributes cascade; the values of the
                                                metadata attributes are additive. This is the
                                                processing default for the <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
                                                attribute and was the only defined behavior for DITA
                                                1.2 and earlier.</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                                <dlentry>
                                        <dt>cascade="nomerge"</dt>
                                        <dd>The metadata attributes cascade; however, they are not
            additive for <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements that specify a different value
            for a specific metadata attribute. If the cascading value for an attribute is already
            merged based on multiple ancestor elements, that merged value continues to cascade until
            a new value is encountered (that is, setting <codeph>cascade="nomerge"</codeph> does not
            undo merging that took place on ancestors).</dd>
                                </dlentry>
                        </dl>
                </section>

                <section>
                        <title>Notes</title>
                        <note id="deprecated_navtitle_attribute">The <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt>
                                attribute is deprecated in favor of the
                                        <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element. When both a
                                        <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element and a
                                        <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute are specified, the
                                        <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element should be used. </note>
                        <note rev=" DITA1.3 proposal-13103" id="deprecated-print-attribute"
                                >Beginning with DITA 1.3, the <xmlatt>print</xmlatt> attribute is
                                deprecated. It is replaced with a conditional processing attribute:
                                        <xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>. See <xref
                                        href="../langRef/attributes/metadataAttributes.dita#select-atts/deliveryTarget"
                                                ><xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt></xref> for more
                                details.</note>
                        <note id="mapref-with-child-elements">If a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                                element that references a map contains child
                                        <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements, the processing
                                behavior regarding the child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
                                elements is undefined.</note>
      <note id="learning1learning2" rev="review-2">DITA 1.3 defines two new domains for describing
        learning and training interactions: learningInteractionBase2Domain and learning2Domain.
        These two new domains mirror the DITA 1.2 learningInteractionBase and general learning
        domains, but the new versions provide support for multi-paragraph questions, answers, and
        feedback. The new domains are otherwise semantically identical to the original domains. For
        backwards compatibility, both interactions domains are supported in DITA 1.3. For new
        content, use the DITA 1.3 learning2Domain elements.</note>
                </section>

                <section>
                        <title>Paragraphs</title>
                        <p id="attribute-implementation-tokens">Implementers <term
                                        outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> define
                                their own custom, implementation-specific tokens. To avoid name
                                conflicts between implementations or with future additions to the
                                standard, implementation-specific tokens <term
                                        outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term>
                                consist of a prefix that gives the name or an abbreviation for the
                                implementation followed by a colon followed by the token or method
                                name.</p>
                        <p id="export-anchors-disclaimer">Many publishing systems for which DITA is
                                used as a source format do not have a way to dynamically resolve
                                content references; those systems will not see any benefit from this
                                element. When DITA is used for those systems, behaviors related to
                                this element should be ignored.</p>
                        <p id="module-version-xpl">The identifiers listed below are declared by the
                                OASIS DITA Technical Committee for the modules that are shipped with
                                DITA 1.3. Values that use a version number of 1.3 refer specifically
                                to the modules that are delivered with the DITA 1.3 specification.
                                Values that use a version number of 1.x refer to the modules in the
                                latest approved DITA 1.x specification. Values without a version
                                number refer to the modules in the latest approved DITA
                                specification, regardless of version.</p>
                        <p id="keys-attribute-syntax">The <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute uses the
                                following syntax:<ul id="ul_yxs_dr5_yl">
                                        <li>The value of the <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt> attribute is one
                                                or more space-separated key names.</li>
                                        <li> Key names consist of characters that are legal in a
                                                URI. The case of key names is significant.</li>
                                        <li>The following characters are prohibited in key names:
                                                "{", "}", "[", "]", "/", "#", "?", and whitespace
                                                characters.</li>
                                </ul></p>
                        <p id="release-domain-best-practices">The recommended best practice is to
        use date strings that conform to the ISO 8601 standard, unless a <ph rev="review-2"
          >unix-style</ph> machine timestamp is used. The string might contain a date and time (for
        example, <codeph>2007-04-05T12:30-02:00</codeph>) or just a date (for example,
          <codeph>2014-03-04</codeph>).</p>
                        <p id="pgwide-explain">In DITA tables, in place of the
                                        <xmlatt>expanse</xmlatt> attribute used by other DITA
                                elements, the <xmlatt>pgwide</xmlatt> attribute is used in order to
                                conform to the OASIS Exchange Table Model. The
                                        <xmlatt>pgwide</xmlatt> attribute has a similar semantic
                                (1=page width; 0=resize to galley or column). </p>
      <p id="sort-as-1">When a <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element is specified, processors
        that sort the containing element <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term>
        construct the effective sort phrase by prepending the content of the
          <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element to the base sort phrase. This ensures that two
        items with the same <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element but different base sort phrases
        will sort in the appropriate order.</p>
      <p outputclass="example" id="sort-as-2">For example, if a processor uses the content of the
          <xmlelement>title</xmlelement> element as the base sort phrase, and the title of a topic
        is "24 Hour Support Hotline" and the value of the <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element
        is "twenty-four hour", then the effective sort phrase would be "twenty-four hour24 Hour
        Support Hotline".</p>
                </section>

                <section>
                        <title>Phrases</title>
                        <lines>
 <ph id="does-it-cascade">Does it cascade to child <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements?</ph>
<ph id="highlight-caution">This element is part of the highlighting domain. Use this element only when a more semantically appropriate element is not available.</ph>
<ph id="xml-mention-domain">This element is part of the XML mention domain.</ph>
<ph id="groupdefn">The attribute also can include groups of values specified using the same syntax as generalized attributes within <xmlatt>props</xmlatt>; see <xref href="../archSpec/base/attributegeneralize.dita"/> for details on grouping syntax.</ph>
<ph id="ditavalref-copyto">If <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> is specified on a topic reference where <xmlelement>dvrResourcePrefix</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>dvrResourceSuffix</xmlelement> based renaming is in effect, the prefixes or suffixes are applied to the resource name inside the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute.</ph>
</lines>
                </section>

                <section>
                        <title>Examples</title>
                        <!--Content used in <example> element in anchor.dita and dita_23_mapstruct.dita-->
                        <p id="anchor" rev="DITA1.2-errata">In this example, the
                                        <filepath>map1.ditamap</filepath> contains an
                                        <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element with an
                                        <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute set to "a1". <fig>
                                        <title>DITA map that contains an anchor</title>
                                        <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title&gt;MyComponent tasks&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;topicref navtitle="Start here" href="start.dita" toc="yes">
    &lt;navref mapref="othermap2.ditamap"/>
    &lt;navref mapref="othermap3.ditamap"/>
    &lt;anchor id="a1"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
                                </fig></p>
                        <p id="anchoref" rev="DITA1.2-errata">The <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> on an
                                        <xmlelement>anchor</xmlelement> element can be referenced by
                                the <xmlatt>anchorref</xmlatt> attribute on another map's
                                        <xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element. For example, the map
                                to be integrated at that spot could be defined as follows.<fig>
                                        <title>DITA map that references an anchor</title>
                                        <codeblock>&lt;map anchorref="map1.ditamap#a1"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;This map is pulled into the MyComponent task map&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;!-- ... -->
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
                                </fig></p>
                </section>
                <section id="dita-modules">
                        <title>Description of DITA modules</title>
                        <p>The tables below describe the modules that are defined by the DITA
                                        standard.<draft-comment>MP: Stan Doherty comment for 1.2:
                                        consider providing table with one column per using doctype
                                        to make doctype usage of modules easier to
                                        scan</draft-comment></p>
                        <table id="table_tkp_rzn_yl">
                                <title>Description of common modules</title>
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="8*"/>
                                        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="26*"/>
                                        <thead>
                                                <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Common module files</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Common elements
                                                  (commonElements)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines all content elements
                                                  that may appear in both maps and topics.</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Metadata elements
                                                  (metaDecl)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines meta elements that
                                                  may appear in both maps and topics</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Table elements
                                                  (tblDecl)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines the complex tables
                                                  used within DITA, based on the OASIS Exchange
                                                  Table model.</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>DITA Architecture attribute (ditaarch.xsd) </entry>
                                                  <entry>XML Schema only - Defines the attribute
                                                  that defines DITA&apos;s architectural
                                                  version</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>XML namespace attributes (xml.xsd)</entry>
                                                  <entry>XML Schema only - Defines the attributes
                                                  with the XML namespace</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                        </table>
                        <table id="table_dlp_rzn_yl">
                                <title>Description of domain modules</title>
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="8*"/>
                                        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                        <thead>
                                                <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Domains</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Indexing domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The indexing domain provides
                                                  several new elements for use with indexing. The
                                                  new elements allow authors to define "See" and
                                                  "See also" references, and to override the default
                                                  sort order for a term. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Highlight domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The <ph rev="DITA1.2-errata"
                                                  >highlighting</ph> elements are used to highlight
                                                  text with styles (such as bold, italic, and
                                                  monospace). Never use these elements when a
                                                  semantically specific element is available. These
                                                  elements are not intended for use by specializers,
                                                  and are intended solely for use by authors when no
                                                  semantically appropriate element is available and
                                                  a formatting effect is required.</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Programming domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The programming domain
                                                  elements are used to define the syntax and to give
                                                  examples of programming languages. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Software domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The software domain elements
                                                  are used to describe the operation of a software
                                                  program. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">UI domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The user interface domain
                                                  elements are used to describe the user interface
                                                  of a software program. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Utilities domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The utilities domain
                                                  elements represent common features of a language
                                                  that may not necessarily be semantic, such as
                                                  image maps.</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map Group domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The mapgroup domain elements
                                                  define, group, or reference content. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">xNAL domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The xNAL domain elements
                                                  represent a subset of the Extensible Name and
                                                  Address Standard. The domain can be included in
                                                  any topic type or map, although the
                                                  implementations provided by OASIS only include it
                                                  in the bookmap specialization. It is used to
                                                  encode information about the author or authors of
                                                  DITA information. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Hazard Statement domain </entry>
                                                  <entry>The hazard statement domain elements
                                                  represent labeling for product safety hazards that
                                                  readers need to be aware of. The domain can be
                                                  included in any topic type or map. Its elements
                                                  are used to inform readers about potential
                                                  hazards, consequences, and avoidance strategies
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Machine Industry domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The machine-industry task domain contains
                                                  elements for use describing tasks that involve
                                                  machines or other pieces of hardware. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Delay Resolution domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The delayed conref resolution domain
                                                  provides several elements for use when using DITA
                                                  in situations that enable delayed or run time
                                                  resolution of conref. The elements allow users to
                                                  resolve some conref values statically, while
                                                  delaying others for later resolution. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Abbreviate domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The abbreviate domain element is used to
                                                  represent a reference to a term that may appear in
                                                  an abbreviated form (often an acronym). </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Glossref domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The glossref domain elements are
                                                  convenience elements that are used to reference
                                                  glossary topics or to reference multiple topics in
                                                  a single collection. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Classify domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The classification domain elements are used
                                                  to identify subjects covered by the content
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning domain elements represent the
                                                  base elements that are used to create learning and
                                                  training content.</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Interaction Base domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning interaction base domain
                                                  defines an "abstract" base type for all learning
                                                  assessments. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Map domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning and training map domain
                                                  organizes groups of topics as learning
                                                  objects</entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Metadata domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning and training metadata domain
                                                  describes specific characteristics of the learning
                                                  content. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                        </table>
                        <table id="table_rlp_rzn_yl">
                                <title>Description of topic and its specialization modules</title>
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                        <thead>
                                                <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Topic types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Topic</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Base Topic</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>DITABase</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Concept modules
Topic modules
Reference modules
Task modules
General Task modules
Glossary Entry modules
GlossGroup modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Concept</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Glossary</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Glossary Entry modules
Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>GlossGroup</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>GlossGroup modules
Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Reference</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Reference modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Task</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules
Strict Taskbody module

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>General Task</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Machinery Task</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain
Machine Industry domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Assessment</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Assessment modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Content</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Content modules
Learning Assessment modules
Learning Summary modules
Concept modules
Topic modules
Reference modules
Task modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Overview</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Overview modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Plan</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Plan modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Summary</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Summary modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                        </table>
                        <table id="table_emp_rzn_yl">
                                <title>Description of map and its specialization modules</title>
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                        <thead>
                                                <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Glossref domain

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Base Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Bookmap</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Bookmap modules
Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Classification Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Classification domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Subject Scheme</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Subject Scheme modules
Map modules

Map Group domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Learning Metadata domain
Learning Map domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain              </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Bookmap</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules
Bookmap modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
xNAL Domain
Learning Metadata domain
Learning Map domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain                </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                        </table>
                        <table id="table_6351c5ad-8b39-4a43-8fab-438ece181818">
                                <title>Description of constraint modules</title>
                                <tgroup cols="2">
                                        <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                        <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                        <thead>
                                                <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Constraint types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </thead>
                                        <tbody>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Strict Taskbody</entry>
                                                  <entry>The strict task body has a constrained
                                                  structure. </entry>
                                                </row>
                                                <row>
                                                  <entry>Machinery Taskbody</entry>
                                                  <entry>The machinery task body makes use of
                                                  elements prelreqs and closereqs instead of prereq
                                                  and postreq</entry>
                                                </row>
                                        </tbody>
                                </tgroup>
                        </table>
                </section>
                <section><title>Reused error conditions</title><ph id="index-sort-as">When located
                                within the <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element, the
                                        <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> element is equivalent to
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement>. It is an error for
                                an <xmlelement>indexterm</xmlelement> element to directly contain
                                both <xmlelement>sort-as</xmlelement> and
                                        <xmlelement>index-sort-as</xmlelement>
                        elements.</ph></section>
    <section>
      <title>Constraints material</title>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-contribution">
        <li id="inheritance-hierarchy-li"><varname>inheritance-hierarchy</varname> is the
          specialization hierarchy, for example, <codeph>topic task</codeph>.</li>
        <li id="qualifier-li"><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the
          constraints module and characterizes it, for example, "strict" or "requiredTitle" or
          "myCompany-".</li>
        <li id="Tagname-li"><varname>Tagname</varname> is the element type name with an initial
          capital, for example, "Taskbody"<ph rev="targeted-review"> or "Topic"</ph>.</li>
        <li id="literal-c-li">The literal "-c" indicates that the name is the name of a
          constraint.</li>
      </ul>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-contribution-domain-constraint">
        <li><varname>inheritance-hierarchy</varname> is the specialization hierarchy, for example,
            <codeph>topic hi-d</codeph>.</li>
        <li><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the constraints module and
          characterizes it, for example, "noSyntaxDiagram" or "myCompany-".</li>
        <li><varname>domain</varname> is the name of the domain to which the constraints apply, for
          example, "Highlighting" or "Programming".</li>
        <li conref="#reuse_file/literal-c-li"/>
      </ul>
      <ul id="dtd-domains-constraint">
        <li><varname>qualifier</varname> is a string that is specific to the constraints module and
          characterizes it, for example, "noSyntaxDiagram" or "myCompany-".</li>
        <li><ph id="domain-variable-ph"><varname>domain</varname> is the name of the domain to which
            the constraints apply, for example, "Highlighting" or "Programming".</ph></li>
        <li><varname>extension</varname> is either "rng" or "rnc".</li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>File naming conventions</title>
      <p rev="targeted-review" id="see-file-naming-conventions">See <xref
          href="../non-normative/file-naming-conventions.dita"/> for information about best
        practices for file naming.</p>
      <p rev="targeted-review" id="indicating-strong-constraint">Optionally, a domains contribution
        can indicate a strong constraint by preceding the domains contribution with the letter "s".
        For example, <codeph>"s(topic task strictTaskbody-c)"</codeph> indicates a strong
        constraint.</p>
    </section>
        </conbody>
</concept>
