<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita-linking-link-element-summary" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Summary of addressing elements</title>
 <shortdesc>This topic summarizes DITA elements that can be used to link to or address other items.
  The table describes how and why each element uses the addressing mechanism, rather than defining
  the element itself.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <draft-comment author="robander" time="30 July 2014">This is non-normative information - it is
      just an informative list that contains no new information. It repeats information that is
      defined everywhere (mostly restating or partially rewording information from short
      descriptions in the language reference). It often describes what elements "might" do, when we
      would be better of referring to the language ref for a more complete description of what it
      *does* do.<p>I've moved this from the "DITA Addressing" section of the base architectural
        spec, where it sat oddly after the key definition section. I'm a little nervous about
        continuing to maintain this going forward but for the moment I've just shifted it to the
        "non-normative" section.</p></draft-comment>
    <table frame="all">
      <title>DITA addressing elements</title>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Element</entry>
            <entry>Description and notes</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes a relationship between the containing map and another map, DITA
              topic, or non-DITA resource when the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>
              attribute is specified. When <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> is set to
              "resource-only", it establishes a dependency on the target resource but does not
              contribute to the navigation tree. Might establish additional relationships between
              the referenced resource and other resources in the navigation hierarchy as determined
              by the values of the <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute. By default, these
              additional relationships are bi-directional. The directionality of additional
              relationships can be controlled using the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute. </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes relations of a specific type (as defined by the relationship table)
              among topicref-linked resources where each row in the table establishes a single set
              of relationships among the topicref-linked resources in each cell of the row.
              Relationships defined in relationship tables are outside of any navigation structure
              defined by the map.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>navref</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes a map-to-map relationship where the integration of the referenced
              map's navigation structure is deferred. The referenced map is processed independently
              from the referencing map and does not contribute to the key space of the referencing
              map.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>link</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes a link from its containing topic to another resource. Any
                <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> element within a topic can be functionally replaced by
              the equivalent link defined in a relationship table. Likewise, topic-to-topic links
              defined by relationship tables can be replaced by the equivalent set of
                <xmlelement>link</xmlelement> elements in the topics involved.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes a navigation link from a topic abstract or body to another DITA
              element or non-DITA resource.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>image</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Links to an image that should be displayed at the point of reference.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>object</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Links to a media object that should be displayed at the point of
              reference.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>longdescref</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Links to a long description for an image or object. Can be used in place of the
                <xmlatt>longdescref</xmlatt> attribute on the parent image or object
              element.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>longquoteref</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Links to the source of a long quotation. Used in place of the
                <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute on the
                <xmlelement>lq</xmlelement> element. Enables use of all the normal link-controlling
              attributes.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>data-about</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes an explicit relationship between one or more
                <xmlelement>data</xmlelement> elements and the DITA element or non-DITA resource to
              which the data applies.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Elements that take <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> but not <xmlatt>href</xmlatt></entry>
            <entry>Establishes navigation links to the referenced DITA element or non-DITA resource
              when <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> is specified and the key is bound to a topic, map, or
              non-DITA resource. If the linking element has empty content and the key definition has
              a matching subelement in its <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>, establishes a
              use-by-reference relationship to the matching element in the key definition. Includes
                <xmlelement>ph</xmlelement>, <xmlelement>cite</xmlelement>,
                <xmlelement>keyword</xmlelement>, and <xmlelement>term</xmlelement>.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>imagemap</xmlelement> (utilities domain)</entry>
            <entry>Enables linking from defined areas that are overlaid on a graphic. Modeled on the
              HTML image map.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>author</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Might link to a resource that represents the author, for example, a biographical
              topic or image.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>data</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Might link to a resource that represents the metadata value.</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry><xmlelement>fragref</xmlelement> (programming domain)</entry>
            <entry>Links to a syntax definition fragment.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>lq</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Might link to the source of the quotation.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>publisher</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Might link to a resource that represents the publisher, for example, the
              publisher Web site or a descriptive topic.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>source</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Might link to a description of the source for the topic.</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry><xmlelement>synnoteref</xmlelement> (programming domain)</entry>
            <entry>Might link to a syntax note.</entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry><xmlelement>fn</xmlelement></entry>
            <entry>Establishes a relationship between the content within which the footnote appears
              and the note itself, such that the footnote is an annotation of the content.</entry>
          </row>
          <row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111" product="technicalContent">
            <entry><xmlelement>mathmlref</xmlelement> (MathML domain)</entry>
            <entry>References a MathML <xmlelement>math</xmlelement> element that is stored in a
              non-DITA document.</entry>
          </row>
          <row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13119" product="technicalContent">
            <entry><xmlelement>svgref</xmlelement> (SVG domain)</entry>
            <entry>References an SVG <xmlelement>svg</xmlelement> element that stored in a non-DITA
              document .</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </conbody>
</concept>
