<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="domain-modules">
  <title>Domain modules</title>
  <shortdesc>The DITA standard provides domain modules that you can integrate into your
    document-type shells.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p>The tables in this topic use the following variables:</p>
      <ul>
        <li><varname>grammar</varname> specifies the type of XML grammar, for example, "dtd", "xsd",
          "rng", or "rnc".</li>
        <li>.<varname>ext</varname> is the file extension, for example, "ent", "mod", "xsd", "rng",
          or "rnc".</li>
      </ul>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="6 March 2014">I have added the new 1.3 domains
        to the following table. I have not added the file names, as I cannot verify them against
        packages yet. Accordingly, the<xmlelement> filepath </xmlelement>elements contain
        "X".</draft-comment>
    </section>
    <table frame="all">
      <title>Domain modules used in DITA topics</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="2" colwidth="2*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="2.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Domain</entry>
            <entry>File names</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Abbreviation</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/abbreviateDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides an element (<xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement>) that represents a
              reference to a term that can be displayed in both long and short form</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111">
            <entry>Equation</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for representing equations</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Hazard statement</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/hazardstatementDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for constructing product safety-information labels</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Highlighting</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/highlightDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for highlighting text</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Indexing</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/indexingDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for use with indexing</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="learningTraining">
            <entry>Learning</entry>
            <entry><filepath>learning/<varname>grammar</varname>/learningDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for X<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein"
                time="6 March 2014">What is this domain used for?</draft-comment></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="learningTraining">
            <entry>Learning interaction base</entry>
            <entry><filepath>learning/<varname>grammar</varname>/learningInteractionBaseDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements to describe learning interactions such as questions and
              responses</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="learningTraining">
            <entry>Learning metadata</entry>
            <entry><filepath>learning/<varname>grammar</varname>/learningMetadataDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements to describe the characteristics of learning content</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13035">
            <entry>Markup</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides an element that can be used a base for specializing elements to
              represent markup elements</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111">
            <entry>MathML</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for including or referencing MathML markup</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>Programming</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/programmingDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for documenting programming concepts and syntax</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13102">
            <entry>Release management</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for human-authored information about the changes that have been
              made to a DITA topic</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>Software</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/softwareDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for documenting software applications</entry>
          </row>
          <row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13119" product="technicalContent">
            <entry>SVG</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for including or referencing SVG markup</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>Task requirements</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/taskreqDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for use in tasks that involve machines or other pieces of
              hardware</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>User interface</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/uiDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for documenting user interfaces</entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Utilities</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/utilitiesDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for common features of a language that might not be semantic,
              such as image maps</entry>
          </row>
          <row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13035" product="technicalContent">
            <entry>XML mention</entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/X.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for describing XML applications and document types</entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    <table frame="all">
      <title>Domain modules used in DITA maps</title>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Domains</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
            <entry>File names</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Classification</entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for associating topic references with subjects</entry>
            <entry><filepath>subjectScheme/<varname>grammar</varname>/classifyDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Delayed conref resolution</entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for use in environments when conref resolution is delayed or
              occurs at run time </entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/delayResolutionDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>Glossref</entry>
            <entry>Provides convenience elements that are used to reference glossary topics or to
              reference multiple topics in a single collection </entry>
            <entry><filepath>technicalContent/<varname>grammar</varname>/glossrefDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="learningTraining">
            <entry>Learning map</entry>
            <entry>Provides elements to group topics as learning objects</entry>
            <entry><filepath>learning/<varname>grammar</varname>/learningMapDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="base">
            <entry>Map group</entry>
            <entry>Provides elements for use in addressing, defining, or grouping topic
              references</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/mapGroup.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
          <row product="technicalContent">
            <entry>xNAL</entry>
            <entry>Provides elements that represent a subset of the Extensible Name and Address
              Standard</entry>
            <entry><filepath>base/<varname>grammar</varname>/xnalDomain.<varname>ext</varname></filepath></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </refbody>
 
</reference>
