<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="conditional-processing-attributes-and-metadata-elements">
 <title>Conditional processing attributes and metadata elements</title>
 <shortdesc/>
 <conbody>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="8 February 2014" disposition="open">Should this be
      a separate topic? What really is the focus -- a lot of the content really focuses on the
      coordination of attributes and elements ...? How should this content connect with that in the
      "Conditional processing attributes" topic in the "Markup" section?</draft-comment>
  <p>Audience, platform, and product metadata can be expressed in two ways:<ul>
    <li>Using attributes on elements within a topic or on <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
     elements</li>
    <li>Using elements within the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element (topics) or
      <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element (maps)</li>
   </ul></p>
  <p>While the metadata elements are more expressive, the meaning of the values is the same and can
      be used in coordination. For example, the prolog elements can fully define the audiences for a
      topic, and then metadata attributes can be used within the content to identify the parts that
      apply to only some of those audiences.<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein"
        time="8 February 2014" disposition="open">
        <p>What are we trying to convey by stating "the meaning of the values is the same"? It
          obviously isn't, as far as the fact that the elements cannot be used for conditional
          processing.</p>
        <p>Do we want to provide an example of using elements and attributes in coordination? While
          this material has been in the spec for a long time, I've never seen DITA content that
          actually coordinated the attributes and elements.</p>
        <p>[Robert Anderson: 21 April 2014] I don't think we should try and provide an example of
          that - it would be taken as the "way to do it", when as you say, I've never seen anybody
          implement it. I think it would probably be best to comment out the language, given that
          we've dropped the proposal to define this from (at least) DITA 1.2 and 1.3, due to lack of
          people willing to work on it.</p>
      </draft-comment></p>
  <draft-comment author="robander" rev="proposal-13056" time="2013" disposition="open">Deb's review
      pointed out that the attribute descriptions below are very inconsistent in their style /
      wording. This wording goes back to DITA 1.2 or earlier, but should be cleaned up when
      integrating the new material..</draft-comment>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="6 March 2014" disposition="open">
      <p>Do we really want to say that the conditional processing attributes are equivalent to the
        metadata elements?</p>
      <p>[Robert Anderson: 21 April 2014] I don't think so. Maybe time to remove that, given the
        failed efforts to coordinate them?</p>
    </draft-comment>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>audience</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>The end user or reader. This attribute is equivalent to the
      <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element. The value of the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>
     attribute can be used to reference a more complete description of an audience that is specified
     in an <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element; use the same value for the
      <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute on the <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element and the
      <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute.<p>The <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute takes a
      space-delimited list of values, which might or might not match the name value of any
       <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> elements. <ph
       conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/groupdefn" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056"
      /></p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>platform</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>The operating system, hardware, or other environment. This attribute is equivalent to the
      <xmlelement>platform</xmlelement> element.</dd>
    <dd>
     <p>The <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which might
      or might not match the content of a <xmlelement>platform</xmlelement> element in the prolog.
       <ph conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/groupdefn" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056"
      /></p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>product</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>The product or component name, version, brand, or internal code or number. This attribute is
     equivalent to the <xmlelement>prodinfo</xmlelement> element.</dd>
    <dd>
     <p>The <xmlatt>product</xmlatt> attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which may or
      might or might not match the value of the <xmlelement>prodname</xmlelement> element in the
      prolog. <ph conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/groupdefn"/></p>
    </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/deliveryTarget" id="deliveryTarget">
        <dt/>
        <dd/>
      </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>rev</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>The identifier for the revision level. The <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute takes a
          space-delimited list of values. For example, if a paragraph was changed or added during
          revision 1.1, the <xmlatt>rev</xmlatt> attribute might contain the value "1.1". </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>Metadata qualification values about the content. This attribute is equivalent to the
            <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement> element. <p>The attribute takes a space-delimited
            list of values, which might or might not match the values of
              <xmlelement>othermeta</xmlelement> elements in the prolog. <ph
              conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/groupdefn"/>
            <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056">The grouping syntax matches the original
                <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt> grouping syntax that was defined in DITA 1.0 and 1.1.
              That usage was reserved exclusively for <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>; the usage was
              deprecated in DITA
          1.2.</ph></p><!--<draft-comment author="robander" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13056">Removed these paragraphs from 1.2: <p>For example, a simple otherprops value list: <codeph>&lt;codeblock otherprops="java cpp"></codeph></p><p><draft-comment>MP: deprecated grouped value syntax per TC meeting 2007/01/02</draft-comment>The attribute <term>may</term> take labeled groups of values as for @props. Processors <term>may</term> treat such values as equivalent to @props or they <term>may</term> treat such values as simple strings. The use of labeled groups in @otherprops is deprecated in favor of using specializations of @props. Processors <term>should</term> clearly document how they treat grouped @otherprops values. See <xref href="attributegeneralize.dita#attributegeneralize" format="dita"/> for details on generalized @props attribute values.</p></draft-comment>-->
        </dd>
   </dlentry>
   <dlentry>
    <dt><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></dt>
    <dd>A generic attribute for conditional processing values. Starting with DITA 1.1, the
      <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute can be specialized to create new conditional processing
     attributes. <ph>See <xref href="attributegeneralize.dita"/>.</ph></dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 </conbody>
</concept>
