<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="configuration-specialization-and-constraints" xml:lang="en-US">
  <title>Configuration, specialization, and constraints </title>
  <shortdesc rev="review-2">The extension facilities of DITA allow existing vocabulary and
    constraint modules to be combined to create specific DITA document types. Vocabulary modules
    also can be specialized to meet requirements that are not satisfied by existing markup. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>If you want to create a specialization or constraint using the DITA XSD schema, you need to
      use the XSD redefine facility. However, this facility does not allow sequence groups to be
      directly constrained. Thus, to support specialization and constraints, it might be necessary
      to refactor content models into named groups that can be redefined. In order to keep the XSD,
      RELAX NG, and DTD implementations as consistent as possible, the DITA Technical Committee only
      refactored those content models that were required for OASIS-provided <ph rev="review-2"
        >grammars, the strict task body and machinery-industry task</ph>. The other DITA content
      models distributed by OASIS have not been refactored.</p>
    <p>You <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> modify OASIS-provided XSD
      modules to refactor content models if required by your constraint. You either can modify the
      OASIS-provided XSD module or extend the RELAX NG-to-XSD generation process to add your special
      case. You <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> notify the DITA
      Technical Committee (TC) of your constraint requirements, so the TC can consider adding the
      required refactoring to the OASIS-provided XSDs.</p>
    <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 October 2014" disposition="open">
      <p>This is not the correct place for this information. I added it here so that we do not
        forget to include it in the spec.</p>
    </draft-comment>
  </conbody>
</concept>
