<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="controlled-values-for-attributes">
    <title><ph rev="targeted-review">Defining</ph> controlled values for attributes</title>
    <shortdesc>Subject scheme maps can define controlled values for DITA attributes without having
            <ph rev="targeted-review">to define specializations or constraints</ph>. The list of
        available values can be modified quickly to adapt to new situations.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>controlled values<indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>examples<indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>providing a subject-definition
                            resource</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>controlled
                        values</indexterm><indexterm>subject-definition
                    resources</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>subject-definition resources</indexterm>
                <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>defining controlled
                            values</indexterm><indexterm>examples<indexterm>providing a
                            subject-definition resource</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Each controlled value is defined using a <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element,
            which is a specialization of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. The
                <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element is used to define both a <ph
                rev="targeted-review">subject</ph> category and a list of controlled values. The
            top-level <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element defines the category, and the
            children <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> elements define the controlled values.</p>
        <p>The subject definitions can include additional information within a
                <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element to clarify the meaning of a value:<ul>
                <li>The <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element can provide a more readable value
                    name.</li>
                <li>The <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement>
                    <ph rev="targeted-review">element</ph> can provide a definition.</li>
            </ul></p>
        <p>In addition, the <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element can use an
                <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute to refer to a more detailed definition of the
            subject.</p>
        <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="5 February 2015">
            <p>In the targeted review, Eliot Kimber suggested revising the above sentence as: "In
                addition, the <xmlelement>subjectdef</xmlelement> element can refer to a more
                detailed definition of the subject.</p>
            <p>I am leaving the sentence as is, as I think the original wording is correct. I
                suspect that using <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> in a subjectScheme map to refer to other
                than a subject might cause circular processing.</p>
        </draft-comment>
        <p rev="targeted-review">The following behavior is expected of processors:</p>
        <ul>
            <li>Authoring tools <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> use
                these lists of controlled values to provide lists from which authors can select
                values when they specify attribute values.</li>
            <li>Authoring tools <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> give an
                organization a list of readable labels, a hierarchy of values to simplify selection,
                and a shared definition of the value.</li>
            <li>An editor <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term>
                <ph rev="targeted-review">support accessing and displaying the content of the
                    subject definition resource in order to provide users with</ph> a detailed
                explanation of the subject.</li>
            <li>Tools <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> produce a help file,
                PDF, or other readable catalog to help authors better understand the controlled
                values.</li>
        </ul>
        <example rev="DITA1.3 targeted-review">
            <title>Example: Controlled values that provide additional information about the
                subject</title>
            <p>The following code fragment illustrates how a subject definition can provide a richer
                level of information about a controlled value:</p>
            <codeblock>&lt;subjectdef keys="terminology" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/policies-guidelines/keyword-guidelines">
    &lt;subjectdef keys="rfc2119" href="rfc-2119.dita">
        &lt;topicmeta>
            &lt;navtitle>RFC-2119 terminology&lt;/navtitle>
            &lt;shortdesc>The normative terminology that the DITA TC uses for the DITA specification&lt;/shortdesc>
        &lt;/topicmeta>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
    &lt;subjectdef keys="iso" href="iso-terminology.dita">
        &lt;topicmeta>
            &lt;navtitle>ISO keywords&lt;/navtitle>
            &lt;shortdesc>The normative terminology used by some other OASIS technical committees&lt;/shortdesc>
        &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;/subjectdef>
&lt;/subjectdef></codeblock>
            <p>The content of the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> and
                    <xmlelement>shortdesc</xmlelement> elements provide additional information that
                a processor might display to users as they select attribute values or classify
                content. The resources referenced by the <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attributes provide
                even more detailed information; a processor might render clickable links as part of
                a user interface that implements a progressive disclosure strategy</p>
        </example>
    </conbody>
</concept>
