<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditamarkup" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>DITA markup </title>
 <shortdesc>Topics and maps are the basic building blocks of the Darwin Information Typing
  Architecture (DITA). Metadata attributes and values can be added to DITA topics and maps, as well
  as to elements within topics, to allow for conditional publishing and content reuse. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>DITA topics and maps are XML documents that conform to the XML specification. As such, they can
   be viewed, edited, validated, and processed with standard XML tools, although some DITA-specific
   features, such as content reference, key reference, and specialization require DITA-specific
   processing for full implementation and validation.</p>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="28 November 2014">
   <p>Comments from review #2:</p>
   <p>[Eliot Kimber] As far as I can tell, the subject of @domains and @class as essential DITA
    features are not mentioned anywhere before the DITA Processing section and in that context the
    discussion of @domains comes out of the blue. While this focus of this section is on DITA markup
    generally (maps and topics), I think it would be appropriate to have a section that discusses
    the @domains and @class attributes generally. </p>
   <p>[Robert Anderson] Kris and I agree that a topic about this would be extremely useful, but also
    note that it has not appeared in the three previous versions of DITA (an oversight, but means we
    can get by without it if we have to). Marking this as accepted and hoping to have time to
    address. </p>
  </draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
