<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditalinking" xml:lang="en-us">
      <title>DITA linking</title>
      <shortdesc><ph conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/linking-shortdesc"
            /></shortdesc>
      <conbody>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="10 March 2015" disposition="open">
                  <p>Robert and I, as spec editors, are not clear on how much of the material in
                        this topic cluster really belongs in the spec. All but one topic ("Linking
                        between maps") was added for DITA 1.2. We are asking the voting members of
                        the TC for help in determining what the spec really needs to say about
                        linking ...</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="30 November 2014" disposition="open">
                  <p>This short description needs to be revisited. It was the short description for
                        the original DITA 1.2 topic, but it needs to be reconsidered after we
                        complete the revision of the child topics. Then we'll need to ask whether
                        the current text accurately reflects the main points that are expressed in
                        the child topics.</p>
            </draft-comment>
            <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="9 March 2015" disposition="open">
                  <p>We have terms in this topic cluster that are not defined. Below are starting
                        points for discussion:</p>
                  <dl>
                        <dlentry>
                              <dt>root map</dt>
                              <dd>The DITA map that is input for a processor.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                              <dt>map tree</dt>
                              <dd>The set of resources that are referenced by a root map and any
                                    submaps that it references.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                              <dt>navigation tree</dt>
                              <dd>The set of navigable resources that are generated by the
                                          <xmlelement>topicref </xmlelement> elements in the map
                                    tree that is generated from a root map.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                              <dt>peer map</dt>
                              <dd>A DITA map that is referenced by a
                                          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element with the value
                                    of the <xmlatt>scope</xmlatt> attribute set to "peer".</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                        <dlentry>
                              <dt>cross-deliverable link</dt>
                              <dd>A link between two root maps.</dd>
                        </dlentry>
                  </dl>
            </draft-comment>
            <draft-comment author="robander" time="March 9 2015">Follow-up to the terms Kris
                  suggested: -- Is a map tree the set of resources referenced by a root map - or by
                  any map? That is, would "root map tree" and "map tree" always be
                  equivalent?</draft-comment>
      </conbody>
</concept>

