<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditamap-attributes" xml:lang="en-us"> 
  <title><ph>DITA map attributes</ph></title> 
  <shortdesc>DITA maps have unique attributes that are designed to control the
	 way that relationships are interpreted for different output purposes. In
	 addition, DITA maps share many metadata and linking attributes with DITA
	 topics. 
  </shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
					attribute<indexterm>example</indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>examples<indexterm>maps<indexterm><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> and
								<xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> in relationship
							tables</indexterm><indexterm>relationship
							tables</indexterm><indexterm>use of <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt>
							attribute</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>maps<indexterm>attributes<indexterm>shared with topics</indexterm><indexterm>unique
							to
							maps</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>examples<indexterm>relationship
							tables</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>relationship tables<indexterm>examples</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog> 
  <conbody>
		<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="26 December 2014" disposition="open">
			<p>Consider splitting this lengthy topic into subtopics.</p>
		</draft-comment> 
	 <section>
			<title>Attributes unique to DITA maps</title>
			<p>DITA maps often encode structures that are specific to a particular medium or output, for
				example, Web pages or a PDF document. Attributes, such as
					<xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>toc</xmlatt>, are designed to help
				processors interpret the DITA map for each kind of output. These attributes are not
				available in DITA topics; individual topics, once separated from the high-level
				structures and dependencies associated with a particular kind of output, should be
				entirely reusable regardless of the intended output format. The
					<xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attributes affect
				how related links are generated for topics that are referenced in the DITA map. </p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>The <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute specifies how the children of a
							<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element relate to their parent and to
						each other. This attribute, which is set on the parent element, typically is
						used by processors to determine how to generate navigation links in the
						rendered topics. For example, a <xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> value of
						"sequence" indicates that children of the specifying
							<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element represent an ordered sequence
						of topics; processors might add numbers to the list of child topics or
						generate next/previous links for online presentation. Where the
							<xmlatt>collection-type</xmlatt> attribute is available on elements that
						cannot directly contain elements (such as <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement>
						or <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>), the behavior of the attribute is
						reserved for future use. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>linking</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>
						<p>By default, the relationships between the topics that are referenced in a map are
							reciprocal: <ul>
								<li>Child topics link to parent topics and vice versa. </li>
								<li>Next and previous topics in a sequence link to each other. </li>
								<li>Topics in a family link to their sibling topics. </li>
								<li base="">Topics referenced in the table cells of the same row in
									a relationship table link to each other. A topic referenced
									within a table cell does not (by default) link to other topics
									referenced in the same table cell. </li>
							</ul>
						</p>
						<p>This behavior can be modified by using the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute, which
							enables an author or information architect to specify how a topic should
							participate in a relationship. The following values are valid: <dl>
								<dlentry>
									<dt>linking="none" </dt>
									<dd>Specifies that the topic does not exist in the map for the
										purposes of calculating links. </dd>
								</dlentry>
								<dlentry>
									<dt>linking="sourceonly" </dt>
									<dd>Specifies that the topic will link to its related topics but
										not vice versa. </dd>
								</dlentry>
								<dlentry>
									<dt>linking="targetonly" </dt>
									<dd>Specifies that the related topics will link to it but not
										vice versa. </dd>
								</dlentry>
								<dlentry>
									<dt>linking="normal" </dt>
									<dd>Default value. It specifies that linking will be reciprocal
										(the topic will link to related topics, and they will link
										back to it). </dd>
								</dlentry>
							</dl>Authors also can create links directly in a topic by using the
								<xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>link</xmlelement>
							elements, but in most cases map-based linking is preferable, because
							links in topics create dependencies between topics that can hinder
							reuse. </p>
						<p>Note that while the relationships between the topics that are referenced
							in a map are reciprocal, the relationships merely <i>imply</i>
							reciprocal links in generated output that includes links. The rendered
							navigation links are a function of the presentation style that is
							determined by the processor. </p>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>toc</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether topics are excluded from navigation output, such as a Web site map or an
						online table of contents. By default, <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
						hierarchies are included in navigation output; relationship tables are
						excluded. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies a navigation title. This is a shorter version of the title that is used in the
						navigation only. By default, the <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is
						ignored; it serves only to help the DITA map author keep track of the title
						of the topic. <note
							conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/deprecated_navtitle_attribute"
						/>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>
						<p> If <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> is set to "yes", the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement>
							element or <xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is used if it is present.
							Otherwise, the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element or
								<xmlatt>navtitle</xmlatt> attribute is ignored and the navigation
							title is retrieved from the referenced file. </p>
						<note conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/deprecated_navtitle_attribute"/>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>print</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether the topic should be included in printed output.</dd>
					<dd>
						<note conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/deprecated-print-attribute"/>
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd> Specifies whether the topic should be included in search indexes. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>Specifies that the processor generates an interim set of DITA topics that are used as the
						input for the final processing. This can produce the following output
						results: <ul>
							<li>Multi-topic files are transformed into smaller files, for example,
								individual HTML files for each DITA topic. </li>
							<li>Individual DITA topics are combined into a single file. </li>
						</ul>Specifying a value for the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute on a
							<xmlelement>map</xmlelement> element establishes chunking behavior that
						applies to the entire map, unless overridden by <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt>
						attributes that are set on more specific elements in the DITA map. For a
						detailed description of the <xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute and its usage,
						see <xref href="chunking.dita"/>. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>
						<p>In most situations, specifies whether a duplicate version of the topic is created when it
							is transformed. This duplicate version can be either literal or virtual.
							The value of the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute specifies the
							uniform resource identifier (URI) by which the topic can be referenced
							by a <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute,
								<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, or
								<xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element. <ph>The duplication is a
								convenience for output processors that use the URI of the topic to
								generate the base address of the output. The <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
								and <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attributes provide an alternative
								mechanism; they enable references to topics in specific-use
								contexts.</ph>
						</p>
						<p>The <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute also can be used to specify the name of a new chunk
							when topics are being chunked; it also can be used to determine the name
							of the stub topic that is generated from a
								<xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that contains a title but
							does not specify a target. In both of those cases, no duplicate version
							of the topic is generated. </p>
						<p>For information on how the <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt> attribute can be used with the
								<xmlatt>chunk</xmlatt> attribute, see <xref href="chunking.dita"/>. </p>
						<!--<p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="24 August 2009">Review
suggestion from Elliot Kimber:<p>"In general, copy-to is a convenience
for output processors that, by default, map topics to result components
one-to-one, using the input topic's URL as a base for the result component's
address (e.g., generating HTML pages from topics where the HTML page's
base filename is the same as the input topic's base filename). However,
the use of copy-to is not required simply to enable references to
topics in a specific use context. That can be done using keys and
keyref irrespective of how topics and result components are named
or addressed."</p><p>Do we want to add information about the copy-to
being handled more elegantly by keys and the @keyref attribute? Should
the @copy-to attribute be deprecated in favor of using keys? Should
this include more information about how and when the @copy-to attribute
is needed even now that we have keys and @keyref? See discussion at <xref
href="http://wiki.oasis-open.org/dita/ditaMaps" scope="external"></xref>.<draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="31 December 2009">Review #3
comment by Michael Priestley on 17 December 2009<p>"For @copy-to -
in response to Eliot's draft comment asking if we should deprecate
copy-to in favor of keyref - definitely not. I don't understand the
comment about usage-specific referencing - i.e. I don't understand
what scenario for copy-to keyref replaces - but it certainly leaves
all the normal scenarios for copy-to, which keyref does not affect
or replace."</p></draft-comment></p></draft-comment></p>-->
					</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt>
					</dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether the topic or map referenced should be processed normally or treated as a
						resource that is only included in order to resolve key or content
						references. <dl>
							<dlentry>
								<dt>processing-role="normal" </dt>
								<dd>The topic is a readable part of the information set. It is
									included in navigation and search results. This is the default
									value for the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element.</dd>
							</dlentry>
							<dlentry>
								<dt>processing-role="resource-only" </dt>
								<dd>The topic should be used only as a resource for processing. It
									is not included in navigation or search results, nor is it
									rendered as a topic. This is the default value for the
										<xmlelement>keydef</xmlelement> element. </dd>
							</dlentry>
						</dl>If the <xmlatt>processing-role</xmlatt> attribute is not specified
						locally, the value cascades from the closest element in the containment
						hierarchy. </dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13059">
					<dt><xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies whether the default rules for the cascading of metadata attributes in a DITA map
						apply. In addition to the following specified values, processors also <term
							outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> define additional values.<dl
							conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/cascade-values">
							<dlentry>
								<dt/>
								<dd/>
							</dlentry>
						</dl>For more information, see  <xref
							href="#ditamap-attributes/how-cascade-attribute-works" format="dita"
						/>.</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry rev="DITA1.3">
					<dt><xmlatt>keys</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Specifies one or more key names.</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13004">
					<dt><xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>Defines a new scope for key definition and resolution, and gives the scope
						one or more names, separated by white space. Key definitions within a scope
						can only be addressed directly by key references within the same scope. The
						key space defined by a key scope also inherits all of the key definitions
						from its parent scope, and if a key is defined in both the parent and child
						scopes, the definition from the parent scope takes precedence. Scoped key
						definitions are also added to the parent scope's key space, prepended by the
						scope name followed by a period. If a scope has more than one name, then
						each key within the scope will be contributed to the parent scope once for
						each prefix.</dd>
				</dlentry>
			</dl>
		</section> 
	 <section id="sharedatt"> 
		<title>Attributes shared by DITA maps and DITA topics</title> 
		<p><ph>The following metadata and reuse attributes are used by both DITA maps and DITA
					topics:</ph>
				<ul>
					<li><xmlatt>product</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt>,
							<xmlatt>audience</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt>,
							<xmlatt>rev</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>status</xmlatt>,
							<xmlatt>importance</xmlatt></li>
					<li><xmlatt>dir</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>xml:lang</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>translate</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li><xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conrefend</xmlatt>,
							<xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>, <xmlatt>conaction</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li><xmlatt>props</xmlatt> and any attribute specialized from <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> (such as
							<xmlatt>deliveryTarget</xmlatt>)</li>
					<li><xmlatt>search</xmlatt>
					</li>
				</ul>DITA maps also use many of the following attributes that are used with
					<xmlelement>link</xmlelement> or <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> elements in DITA
				topics: <ul id="ul_8EC90A51600A4EA388FCB3BCF0490924">
					<li id="li_5893ECBE9D1943CA8F67AFAF1A33AACA"><xmlatt>format</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_324682CF250345F7B2DDC8692BC00C81"><xmlatt>href</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_178E6EB1985D464A867DDB89066927F5"><xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt></li>
					<li id="li_393B3EADBBBF45029DD13F74FCB01383"><xmlatt>scope</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li id="li_C214A132BF374DD681F79EA9C91DFFF2"><xmlatt>type</xmlatt>
					</li>
					<li id="li_C62671077C5E4A759FBD6A6EAB529D68"><xmlatt>query</xmlatt>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</p> 
		<p>When new attributes are specialized from
				<xmlatt>props</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> as a domain, they can be
				incorporated into both map and topic structural types. </p> 
	 </section> 
	 <example id="example_DAFAE816C99C4497A3FB5754A45C6ABA"> 
		<title>Example: How the collection-type and linking attributes work in a relationship
				table</title>
      <!--<draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein">I
moved the following content from the &lt;dlentry> about linking. Does
this content duplicate anything currently in the lang spec? If so,
the material should be reused.</draft-comment>-->
		<p>The following example illustrates how linkage is defined in a DITA map: <fig base="">
					<title>Simple linking example</title>
					<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="A.dita" collection-type="sequence"&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="A1.dita"/&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="A2.dita"/&gt;
&lt;/topicref&gt;
&lt;reltable&gt;
  &lt;relrow&gt;
    <ph>&lt;relcell&gt;&lt;topicref href="A.dita"/&gt;&lt;/relcell&gt;
    &lt;relcell&gt;&lt;topicref href="B.dita"/&gt;&lt;/relcell&gt;</ph>
  &lt;/relrow&gt;
&lt;/reltable&gt;</codeblock>
				</fig>
			</p> 
		<p>When the output is generated, the topics contain the following
		  linkage: 
		<dl> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A1, A2 as children 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Links to B as related 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A1 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as a parent 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Links to A2 as next in the sequence 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A2 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as a parent 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Links to A1 as previous in the sequence 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>B 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as related 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		</dl> 
		</p> 
		<p>The following example illustrates how setting the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute can change
				the default behavior: <fig>
					<title>Linking example with the <xmlatt>linking</xmlatt> attribute</title>
					<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="A.dita" collection-type="sequence"&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="B.dita" linking="none"/&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="A1.dita"/&gt;
  &lt;topicref href="A2.dita"/&gt;
&lt;/topicref&gt;
&lt;reltable&gt;
  &lt;relrow&gt;
    <ph>&lt;relcell&gt;&lt;topicref href="A.dita"/&gt;&lt;/relcell&gt;
    &lt;relcell linking="sourceonly"&gt;&lt;topicref href="B.dita"/&gt;&lt;/relcell&gt;</ph>
  &lt;/relrow&gt;
&lt;/reltable&gt;</codeblock>
				</fig>
			</p> 
		<p>When the output is generated, the topics contain the following
		  linkage: 
		<dl> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A1, A2 as children 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Does not link to B as a child or related topic 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A1 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as a parent 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Links to A2 as next in the sequence 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Does not link to B as previous in the sequence 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>A2 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as a parent 
			 </dd> 
			 <dd>Links to A1 as previous in the sequence 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		  <dlentry> 
			 <dt>B 
			 </dt> 
			 <dd>Links to A as a related topic 
			 </dd> 
		  </dlentry> 
		</dl> 
		</p> 
	 </example>
		<example rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13059" id="how-cascade-attribute-works">
			<title>Example: How the <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt> attribute functions</title>
			<p>The following example illustrates how the <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt> attribute can be used to
				fine tune how the values for the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute apply to topics
				referenced in a DITA map. Here a DITA map contains a collection of topics that apply
				to Windows, Linux, and Macintosh OS; it also contains a topic that is only
				applicable to users running the application on Linux. </p>
			<codeblock>&lt;map product="PuffinTracker" platform="win linux mac" <b>cascade="nomerge"</b>>
  &lt;title>Puffin Tracking Software&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicref href="intro.dita" navtitle="Introduction"/>
  &lt;topicref href="setup.dita" navtitle="Setting up the product"/>
  &lt;topicref href="linux-instructions.dita" navtitle="Linux instructions" platform="linux"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
			<p>The values of the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute set at the map level cascade throughout
				the map and apply to the "Introduction" and "Setting up the product" topics.
				However, since the value of the <xmlatt>cascade</xmlatt> attribute is set to
				"nomerge", the value of the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute for the "Linux
				instructions" topic does not merge with the values that cascade from above in the
				DITA map. The effective value of the <xmlatt>platform</xmlatt> attribute for
					<filepath>linux-instructions.dita</filepath> is "linux".</p>
			<p>The same results are produced by the following
				mark-up:<codeblock>&lt;map product="PuffinTracker" platform="win linux mac">
  &lt;title>Puffin Tracking Software&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicref href="intro.dita" navtitle="Introduction"/>
  &lt;topicref href="setup.dita" navtitle="Setting up the product"/>
  &lt;topicref href="linux-instructions.dita" navtitle="Linux instructions" platform="linux" cascade="nomerge"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
		</example> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
