<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_yfp_251_mp">
 <title>Example: Scoped key definitions</title>
 <shortdesc>Scoped key definitions can be used to create omnibus publications that include multiple
  submaps. If the submaps contain common topics, the key scopes can ensure different effective keys
  for each submap. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The following root map creates an omnibus publication that contains the content for three
   different training courses.</p>
  <codeblock>&lt;map xml:lang="en">
  &lt;title>Training Courses&lt;/title>
  &lt;mapref href="course-1.ditamap" keyscope="course-1"/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-2.ditamap" keyscope="course-2"/>
  &lt;mapref href="course-3.ditamap" keyscope="course-3"/>
  &lt;topicref keys="summary" href="omnibus-summary.dita"/>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
  <p>Each submap contains its own key definitions, including that key definitions for keys used in
   all three training courses: "prereqs" and "objectives".</p>
  <p>When the submaps are processed, different effective key definitions are used for each submap.
   The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute specified on the<xmlelement> mapref</xmlelement> elements
   in the root map acts to establish different key spaces for the topics referenced in each of the
   three submaps.</p>
  <p>Since the key definition for "summary" is located in the root map, that is the effective
   definition for all three submaps. Even if all submaps contain different key definitions for
   "summary", the key definition set in the root map is effective, since key definitions in parent
   key scopes override key definitions set in child scopes.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
