<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_igf_3c4_kn">
 <title>Core concepts for working with keys</title>
 <shortdesc> The concepts described below are critical for a full understanding of keys and key
  processing.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <title>Core definitions related to keys</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry rev="review-2">
     <dt>resource</dt>
     <dd>For the purposes of keys and key resolution, resource can mean an object addressed by URI,
            text, metadata, etc.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>key</dt>
     <dd>A name for a resource. <ph rev="review-2">See <xref
        href="using_keys_to_address_dita_elements.dita#using_keys_to_address_dita_elements/syntax"/>
       for more information.</ph></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>key definition</dt>
     <dd>A <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element or specialization that binds one or more key
      names to resources.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>key reference</dt>
     <dd>An attribute that references a key, such as <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> or
       <xmlatt>conkeyref</xmlatt>.<draft-comment author="chris.nitchie" disposition="accepted">Look
       for places where we talk about elements as key references to make sure we're being
       consistent.</draft-comment></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>key space</dt>
     <dd>A list of key definitions that are used to resolve key references.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>effective key definition</dt>
     <dd>The definition for a key within a key space that is used to resolve references to that key.
      A key might have multiple definitions within a key space, but only one of those definitions is
      effective.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>key scope</dt>
     <dd>A map or section of a map that defines its own key space and serves as the resolution
      context for its key references.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Key definitions</title>
   <p><ph rev="review-2">A key definition binds one or more keys to zero or more resources:</ph></p>
   <ul>
    <li>Any <ph rev="review-2">URI-addressed resource</ph> that is referenced directly by the
            <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> attribute or indirectly by the <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt> attribute.
          References to the key are considered references to <ph rev="review-2">the URI-addressed
            resource</ph>.</li>
    <li><ph rev="review-2">The child elements of any <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
            elements.</ph> The content of those elements can be used to populate the content of
          elements that reference the definition.</li>
   </ul>
   <p>If a key definition does not contain a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element and does not
     <ph rev="review-2">refer to</ph> a resource by <xmlatt>href</xmlatt> or
    <xmlatt>keyref</xmlatt>, it is nonetheless a valid key definition. References to the key
    definition are considered resolvable, but no linking or content population occurs.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Key scopes</title>
   <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 December 2014">
    <p>[Eliot Kimber] I expected to see a complete topic on key scopes but there doesn't seem to be
     one. I think there needs to be one. Or else all of these sections need to be promoted to
     topics.</p>
   </draft-comment>
   <p>All key definitions and key references exist within a key scope. Within a map hierarchy,  key
    scopes are bounded by</p>
   <ul id="ul_nfz_hjp_kn">
    <li>The root map.</li>
    <li>The root element of submaps whose root elements specify the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt>
     attribute.</li>
    <li>Any <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> elements or <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
     specializations that specify the <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute.</li>
   </ul>
   <p>The <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attribute specifies a name or names for the scope. If
          <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> is specified both on the root element in a map and on a
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element that references that map, only one scope is
        introduced; its names are the union of the names that are specified by both
          <xmlatt>keyscope</xmlatt> attributes.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Key spaces</title>
   <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" disposition="open">
    <p>I hate the following phrases:</p>
    <ul>
     <li>key scope's key space</li>
     <li>parent scope's key space</li>
    </ul>
   </draft-comment>
   <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 December 2014">
    <p>[Eliot Kimber] This section refers to scope-qualified key names but scope-qualification of
     key names has not actually been defined or explained. Need to have a section that clearly
     defines how scope-qualified key names are constructed. This is needed in part to make the
     discussion of key definition precedence possible for the example shown in the comment about
     what the precedence rules should be. </p>
   </draft-comment>
   <p>A key scope is associated with exactly one key space. That key space contains all key
    definitions that are located directly within the scope; it may also contain definitions that
    exist in other scopes. Specifically, a key scope's key space is comprised of the following key
    definitions, in order of precedence:</p>
   <ol id="ol_w41_rjp_kn">
    <li>All key definitions from the parent key scope's key space, if any.</li>
    <li>Key definitions within the scope-defining element, including those defined in
     directly-addressed, locally-scoped submaps, but excluding those defined in child scopes.</li>
    <li>The key definitions from child scopes, with each key prepended by the child scope name
     followed by a period. If a child scope has multiple names, the keys in that scope are
     addressable from the parent scope using any of the scope names as a prefix.<draft-comment
      author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 December 2014">
      <p>[Eliot Kimber] As far as I can tell, this is the only place that the construction of
       scope-qualified key names is specified. The general effect of key scopes for creating
       scope-qualified names needs to be explained more generally, e.g., under the preceding key
       scopes section. I wouldn't have even noticed this if I wasn't doing a very close reading and
       if I didn't already know how key scopes are supposed to work. </p>
     </draft-comment></li>
   </ol>
   <note>Because of rules 1 and 3, the key space associated with a child scope includes the
    scope-qualified copies of its own keys that are inherited from the parent scope's key space, as
    well as those from other "sibling" scopes.</note>
   <p>The key space associated with a key scope is used to resolve all key references that occur
    immediately within that scope. Key references in child scopes are resolved using the key spaces
    that are associated with those child scopes.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Effective key definitions</title>
   <p>A key space can contain many definitions for a given key, but only one definition is effective
    for the purpose of resolving key references.</p>
   <p>When a key has a definition in a parent scope's key space, that definition is effective.
        Otherwise, a key definition is effective if it is first in a breadth-first traversal of the
        locally-scoped submaps beneath the scope-defining element. Put another way, a key definition
        is effective if it is the first definition in the shallowest map for that key. This allows
        higher-level map authors to override keys defined in referenced submaps.</p>
   <note>A key definition that specifies more than one key name in its <xmlatt>keys</xmlatt>
    attribute may be the effective definition for some of its keys but not for others.</note>
   <p>Within a key scope, keys do not have to be defined before they are referenced. The key space
    is effective for the entire scope, so the order of key definitions and key references relative
    to one another is not significant. This means that all key spaces for a root map must be
    determined before any key reference processing can be performed, and that maps referenced solely
    by key reference have no bearing on key space contents.</p>
   <p>For purposes of key definition precedence, the scope-qualified key definitions from a child
    scope are considered to occur at the location of the scope-defining element within the parent
    scope.</p>
   <draft-comment author="chris.nitchie" time="7/25/14" disposition="open">This is controversial and
    needs more thought.
     <codeblock>map
   sub-map scope="scopeA"
      sub-map scope="scopeB"
         keydef="MYKEY"
   sub-map scope="scopeA.scopeB"
     keydef MYKEY

key scopeA.scopeB.MYKEY=?</codeblock><p>Per
     traditional rules, the snwer is the second definition; per this sentence, it's the first,
     violating existing stuff.</p></draft-comment>
   <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="7 December">
    <p>Review #2 comments:</p>
    <p>[Eliot Kimber] I think the rule is best stated as: "When a map has two peer scope-defining
     topicrefs that define scopes with the same effective scope name, all the keys defined in the
     first scope and its descendants take precedence over any keys defined in the second scope and
     its descendants." Then include the example. Although, having written that, I'm wondering if
     it's the case in this example that the scopes have the same name (scopeA.scopeB) or that the
     key has the same fully-qualified name (scopeA.scopeB.MYKEY)? In this example there are three
     scopes: scopeA, scopeB, and scopeA.scopeB but there can be only one key "scopeA.scopeB.MYKEY".
     I need to come back to this comment after more review of key scopes generally.</p>
    <p>[Robert Anderson] I think the rule is "When a map has two peer scope-defining topicrefs... I
     did not understand the suggested rule, and I'm not sure it covers the example Chris created. In
     this case none of the maps have two peer scope-defining topicrefs with the same effective scope
     name. None of the maps define more than one scope; each nested map defines only one scope. </p>
   </draft-comment>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
