<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="metadata-in-maps-and-topics" xml:lang="en-us"><title>Metadata in maps and topics</title>
  <shortdesc>Topic metadata can be specified in a DITA map as well as in the topics that the map
    references. By default, metadata in the map supplements or overrides metadata that is specified
    at the topic level, unless the <xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt> attribute of the <xmlelement
      rev="DITA1.3 DITA1.2-errata">topicmeta</xmlelement> element is set to "no".</shortdesc><conbody>
    <section>
      <title><ph id="1.2">Where metadata about topics can be specified</ph></title>
      <p>Information about topics can be specified as metadata on the map, as attributes on the
          <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element, or as metadata attributes or elements in the
        topic itself:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA map: Metadata elements</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>At the map level, properties can be set by using metadata elements. They can be set
                for an individual topic, for a set of topics, or globally for the entire document.
                The metadata elements are authored within a <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement>
                element, which associates metadata with the parent element and its children. Because
                the topics in a branch of the hierarchy typically have some common subjects or
                properties, this is a convenient mechanism to define properties for a set of topics.
                For example, the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element in a
                  <xmlelement>relcolspec</xmlelement> can associate metadata with all the topics
                that are referenced in the <xmlelement>reltable</xmlelement> column.</p>
              <p>A map can override or supplement everything about a topic except its primary title
                and body content. All the metadata elements that are available in a topic also are
                available in a map. In addition, a map may provide alternate titles and a short
                description. The alternate titles can override their equivalents in the topic. The
                short description in the map may override the short description in the topic if the
                  <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element specifies a <xmlatt>copy-to</xmlatt>
                attribute.</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA map: Attributes of the <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element</dt>
            <dd>At the map level, properties can be set as attributes of the
                <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element. </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DITA topic</dt>
            <dd>Within a topic, authors can either set metadata attributes on the root element or
              add metadata elements in the <xmlelement>prolog</xmlelement> element.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>How metadata set at both the map and topic level intersects</title>
      <p>In a topic, the metadata elements apply to the entire topic. In a map, they supplement or
        override any metadata that is provided in the referenced topics. When the same metadata
        element or attribute is specified in both a map and a topic, by default the value in the map
        takes precedence; the assumption here is that the author of the map has more knowledge of
        the reusing context than the author of the topic. The <xmlatt>lockmeta</xmlatt> attribute on
        the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element controls whether map-specified values
        override values in the referenced topic.</p>
      <p>The <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is an exception to the rule of how metadata
        specified by the <xmlelement>topicmeta</xmlelement> element is propagated. The content of
        the <xmlelement>navtitle</xmlelement> element is used as a navigation title only if the
          <xmlatt>locktitle</xmlatt> attribute of the parent <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement>
        element is set to "yes".</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title><ph>Associating attribute-based metadata with element-based
        metadata</ph></title>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="14 July 2009" disposition="deferred">Do
        we need examples that illustrate what is discussed earlier in this topic? The extant example
        really illustrates an edge case, rather than the basic principles.</draft-comment>
      <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" time="17 December 2009" disposition="deferred"
        >Discussion from review #3:<ul>
          <li>Bruce Nevin: I agree with Kris that other examples are needed.</li>
          <li>Kris Eberlein: If we want examples, people are going to need to pony up and develop
            them. This might need to be an item that is deferred to DITA 1.3. </li>
        </ul></draft-comment>
      <p>At the topic level, the content of the prolog metadata elements can provide more
        information about the values that are used for attributes on the elements in the body of the
        DITA topic. However, prolog metadata and attribute metadata also can be used and expressed
        independently. The coordination shown here is possible but is not required.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;prolog>
  &lt;metadata>
    &lt;audience name="AdminNovice"
              type="administrator"
              job="customizing"
              experiencelevel="novice"/>

  &lt;/metadata>
&lt;/prolog>
....
&lt;p audience="AdminNovice ProgrammerExp">This paragraph applies to both 
novice administrators and expert programmers&lt;/p></codeblock>
      <p>In the preceding example, the attribute value <option>AdminNovice</option> is associated
        with the <xmlelement>audience</xmlelement> element with the same name, which gives authors
        and processes more information about the audience in question: in this case, that the
        "AdminNovice" audience consists of administrators who are customizing and who are new at
        it.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>

