<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="module-compatibility" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title><ph rev="review-2">Processing documents with different values of the
    <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute</ph></title>
 <shortdesc rev="review-2">When DITA elements are copied from one document to another, processors
  need to determine the validity of the copied elements. This copying might occur as the result of a
  content reference (conref) or key reference (keyref), or it might occur in the context of an
  author editing a DITA document.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>conref<indexterm>determining validity</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>copied elements<indexterm>determining validity</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm><xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute</indexterm>
    <indexterm>processing expectations<indexterm>validity of copied elements</indexterm></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="16 February 2014" disposition="open">Comment from
   Michael Priestley, 14 January: "Doesn't mention constraints at all. Should be updated to include
   mention of constraints, as well as intended behavior of loose validation by default, with
   processor option to turn on strict validation."</draft-comment>
  <p>A processor can examine the value of the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute and compare the set
   of modules listed to the set of modules for which it provides direct support. It then can take
   appropriate action if it does not provide support for a given module, for example, issuing a
   warning before applying fallback processing.</p>
  <p>When copying content from one DITA document to another, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
    rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> determine if the data being copied (the copy source) requires
   modules that are not required by the document into which the data is to be copied (the copy
   target). Such a copy operation is always safe if the copy source requires a subset of the modules
   that are required by the copy target. Such a copy is unsafe if the copy source requires modules
   that are not required by the copy target. </p>
  <p>When a copy operation is unsafe, processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
    >MAY</term> compare the copy source to the copy target to determine if the copy source satisfies
   the constraints of the copy target. If the copy source meets the copy target constraints, the
   copy operation can proceed. Processors <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
    >SHOULD</term> issue a warning that the copy was allowed but the constraints are not compatible.
   If the copy source does not meet the constraints of the copy target, processors <term
    outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY</term> apply generalization until the generalized
   result either satisfies the copy target constraints or no further generalization can be
   performed. If the copy operation can be performed following generalization, the processor <term
    outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> issue a warning that the constraints are
   not compatible and generalization had to be performed in order to complete the copy
   operation.</p>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="23 December 2014">
   <p>There should be reltable links between this topic and the following topics:</p>
   <ul>
    <li>domains attributes</li>
    <li>Architectural attributes</li>
   </ul>
  </draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
