<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="relax-ng-module-descriptive-markup" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112">
 <title>Module description markup for use in DITA-specific RELAX NG grammars</title>
 <shortdesc>The <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element enables specification of the metadata
  that is required in order to generate conforming DTD- and XSD-based modules from the RELAX NG
  grammars.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
    <draft-comment author="robander" time="16 February 2015">This topic makes many normative
      references to markup that is not part of the DITA standard. It also references files that will
      not be part of the DITA 1.3 standard. It is very unclear as I read what this is -- official
      DITA markup? A convention that should used by RNG->XSD/DTD tools? Maybe it should be an
      appendix -- "these conventions are established for use in RNG files to allow reliable
      conversion to DTD/XSD"?  I'm uncomfortable with the current version of this topic - its
      purpose needs to be clearer, and it should be clear that these elements are not XML markup
      defined by the TC as one of the shipped DITA 1.3 specializations. <p>Related: I did a quick
        scan of the doctypes directory in SVN to see how this is used. The DTD files for this
        specialization are not currently valid, containing lines like the
        following:<codeblock>  259 71:&lt;!ATTLIST  {unknown}    %global-atts;  class CDATA "- topic/shortdesc moduleDesc/headerComment "&gt;
</codeblock></p><p>The
        {unknown} portion is invalid - @class is defined the same for all elements. This
        headerComment element can appear multiple times (not true for base shortdesc); it also uses
        xml:space="preserve", which (at least in the DTD version) means it is not a valid
        specialization of shortdesc.</p></draft-comment>
  <p>The use of <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> is not required. However, when it is used, the
        <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
        >MUST</term> be specified as a direct child of the RELAX NG <xmlelement>grammar</xmlelement>
      element and <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">SHOULD</term> be the first child of
        <xmlelement>grammar</xmlelement>. The <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element functions
      as a foreign element as defined in the RELAX NG specification. The
        <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element is defined as a specialization of
        <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>. Because it is in a namespace, it cannot be a
      strictly-conforming DITA topic as DITA elements may not be in a namespace. However, if the
        <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element is processed in terms of the
        <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> attributes, it will be recognized as a DITA topic and otherwise
      conforms to all rules for conforming topic specializations.<draft-comment author="ekimber"
        disposition="opne">The <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element does not absolutely have
        to be in a namespace--it could specify the no namespace (xml:ns="") but it just seems like
        better practice to have it be in the DITA namespace for use within grammar documents. It's
        also not strictly speaking required that the markup also be a topic but it seemed
        appropriate to have it be a topic so that everything is within the DITA world. I also wanted
        to avoid creating another completely standalone vocabulary like DITAVAL that had no relation
        to anything else in DITA.</draft-comment></p>
  <p>The <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element type is defined in the
    <filepath>vocabularyModuleDescMod.rng</filepath> vocabulary module file.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Namespace</title>
   <p>The <xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element is in the DITA architecture namespace:
     <xmlnsname>http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/</xmlnsname>.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title><xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement> element type</title>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><xmlelement>moduleDesc</xmlelement></dt>
     <dd>Contains the module description metadata. It contains the following sub-elements:<dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>moduleTitle</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Provides a descriptive title for the module or document type shell. It contains
         text.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>headerComment</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Contains the header comment for the module. The content is text with whitespace
         preserved (<xmlatt>xml:space</xmlatt> value of "preserve"). The header comment is used as
         the header for all generated components.</dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt><xmlelement>moduleMetadata</xmlelement></dt>
        <dd>Contains additional metadata for the module or document type shell. It contain the
         following sub-elements:<dl>
          <dlentry>
           <dt><xmlelement>moduleType</xmlelement></dt>
           <dd>Indicates the module type. It contains one of the following keywords:<dl>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>attributedomain</dt>
              <dd>The grammar defines an attribute domain.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>base</dt>
              <dd>The grammar is one of the DITA base modules. Base modules can only be defined by
                              the DITA Technical Committee. Examples of base modules are the
                                <filepath>commonElementsMod.rng</filepath> and
                                <filepath>metaDeclMod.rng</filepath> modules.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>constraint</dt>
              <dd>The grammar defines a constraint module.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>elementdomain</dt>
              <dd>The grammar defines an element domain.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>map</dt>
              <dd>The grammar defines a map type.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>mapshell</dt>
              <dd>The grammar is a document type shell for a map type.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>topic</dt>
              <dd>The grammar defines a topic type.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt>topicshell</dt>
              <dd>The grammar is a document type shell for a topic type.</dd>
             </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
           <dt><xmlelement>modulePublicIds</xmlelement></dt>
           <dd>For vocabulary and constraint modules, defines the public IDs for the files that are
            generated from the grammar. Each sub-element specifies the public identifier to use for
            a specific generated file. It contains the following sub-elements:<dl>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>dtdMod</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the DTD-syntax <filepath>.mod</filepath> file to be
               generated from the grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>dtdEnt</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the DTD-syntax <filepath>.ent</filepath> file to be
               generated from the grammar. This element is equired for element domain modules; it is
               not used for attribute domain modules.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>rncMod</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the RELAX NG compact syntax (RNC) module file to be
               generated from the grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>rngMod</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the RELAX NG XML syntax (RNG) module file (the file that
               contains the <xmlelement>moduleMetadata</xmlelement> element).</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>xsdMod</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the XSD schema module file to be generated from the
               grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
           <dt><xmlelement>domainsContribution</xmlelement></dt>
           <dd>Required for modules, not used for shells. Defines the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt>
            attribute contribution for the module, for example, "(topic hi-d)". This is the value
            that <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> be added to the <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt>
            value for root map or topic types that integrate the module.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
           <dt><xmlelement>shellPublicIds</xmlelement></dt>
           <dd>For document type shells, defines the public IDs for the files that are generated
            from the grammar. Each sub-element specifies the public identifier to use for a specific
            generated file. It contains the following sub-elements:<dl>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>dtdShell</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the DTD document type shell to be generated from the
               grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>rncShell</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the RELAX NG compact syntax (RNC) document type shell to
               be generated from the grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>rngShell</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the RNG document type shell (the file that contains the
                <xmlelement>moduleMetadata</xmlelement> element).</dd>
             </dlentry>
             <dlentry>
              <dt><xmlelement>xsdShell</xmlelement></dt>
              <dd>The public identifier for the XSD schema document type shell to be generated from
               the grammar.</dd>
             </dlentry>
            </dl></dd>
          </dlentry>
         </dl></dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <example>
   <title>Example: RELAX NG grammars with module metadata</title>
   <p>The following code provides the descriptive metadata for a vocabulary module for a topic
        type:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;?xml-model href="vocabularyModuleDesc.rng"
            schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
&lt;grammar xmlns:dita="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
  xmlns:ditaarch="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
  xmlns:a="http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0" 
  xmlns="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0" 
  datatypeLibrary="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-datatypes"
  >
 &lt;moduleDesc xmlns="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/">
   &lt;moduleTitle>DITA Module Description Module&lt;/moduleTitle>
   &lt;headerComment>&lt;![CDATA[
============================================================= 
                    HEADER                                     
 ============================================================= 
  MODULE:    DITA Module Description                             
  VERSION:   1.3                                               
  DATE:      September 2013                                     

  &lt;!-- ... -->
]]&gt;&lt;/headerComment>
   &lt;moduleMetadata>
     &lt;moduleType>topic&lt;/moduleType>
     &lt;moduleShortName>vocabularyModule&lt;/moduleShortName>
     &lt;modulePublicIds>
       &lt;dtdMod>-//OASIS//ELEMENTS DITA Vocabulary Module Description//EN&lt;/dtdMod>
       &lt;dtdEnt>-//OASIS//ENTITIES DITA Vocabulary Module Description//EN&lt;/dtdEnt>
       &lt;xsdMod>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:vocabularyModuleDescMod.xsd&lt;/xsdMod>
       &lt;rncMod>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rnc:vocabularyModuleDescMod.rnc&lt;/rncMod>
       &lt;rngMod>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:vocabularyModuleDescMod.rng&lt;/rngMod>
     &lt;/modulePublicIds>
     &lt;domainsContribution>(topic myTopicType)&lt;/domainsContribution>
   &lt;/moduleMetadata>
 &lt;/moduleDesc>
 
 &lt;!-- ... -->

&lt;/grammar></codeblock></p>
   <p>The following code provides the descriptive metadata for a document type shell for a topic
        type:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;?xml-model href="vocabularyModuleDesc.rng"
            schematypens="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"?>
&lt;grammar xmlns:dita="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"
  xmlns="http://relaxng.org/ns/structure/1.0"
  xmlns:a="http://relaxng.org/ns/compatibility/annotations/1.0"
  datatypeLibrary="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-datatypes">
  &lt;moduleDesc xmlns="http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/">
   &lt;moduleTitle>DITA Module Description Module&lt;/moduleTitle>
   &lt;headerComment>&lt;![CDATA[
============================================================= 
                    HEADER                                     
 ============================================================= 
  MODULE:    DITA Module Description Topic Type Shell                           
  VERSION:   1.3                                               
  DATE:      September 2013                                     

  &lt;!-- ... -->

]]&gt;&lt;/headerComment>
   &lt;moduleMetadata>
     &lt;moduleType>topicshell&lt;/moduleType>
     &lt;moduleShortName>vocabularyModule&lt;/moduleShortName>
     &lt;shellPublicIds>
       &lt;dtdShell>-//OASIS//DTD DITA Vocabulary Module Description//EN&lt;/dtdShell>
       &lt;xsdShell>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:xsd:vocabularyModuleDesc.xsd&lt;/xsdShell>
       &lt;rncShell>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rnc:vocabularyModuleDesc.rnc&lt;/rncShell>
       &lt;rngShell>urn:oasis:names:tc:dita:rng:vocabularyModuleDesc.rng&lt;/rngShell>
     &lt;/shellPublicIds>
   &lt;/moduleMetadata>
 &lt;/moduleDesc>

 &lt;!-- ... -->

&lt;/grammar></codeblock></p>
  </example>
 </conbody>
</concept>
