<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="topic_nt3_b12_zl" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">
  <title>Sharing elements across specializations</title>
  <shortdesc>The process of specialization enables easy reuse of elements from ancestor
    specializations; however, it is also possible to reuse elements from non-ancestor
    specializations, as long as the dependency is properly declared to prevent invalid
    generalization or conref processing.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>A structural specialization can incorporate elements from unrelated domains or other
      structural specializations by referencing them in the content model of a specialized element.
      For example, a specialized reference topic could declare a specialized list
        (<xmlelement>apilist</xmlelement>) in which each <xmlelement>apilistitem</xmlelement>
      contains an <xmlelement>apiname</xmlelement> element that  is borrowed from the programming
      domain. Or a specialized concept topic could declare a specialized
        <xmlelement>process</xmlelement> section that contains the <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>
      elements borrowed from task.</p>
    <p>The elements included in this manner must be specialized from ancestor content that is valid
      in the new context. For example, a specialized element can include the <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> elements in
      its content model if it could validly include <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>, because <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> is specialized from
      <xmlelement>ol</xmlelement>. If the reusing and reused specializations share common ancestry, the reused elements
      must be valid in the reusing context at every level they share in common. </p>
    <p>For example, suppose that <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> is a valid specialization of
        <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> and that the <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> element in
        <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> is a specialization of the <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement>
      element from <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. The <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> ancestry is
        <codeph>- topic/ol task/steps yourtask/yoursteps</codeph>. Consquently,
        <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> must only appear in a context in
        <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement> that can be generalized back to
        <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. Now, suppose that another
      specializer wants to create a second specialization of <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>, called
        <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement>. The specializer borrows the
        <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> element from the <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement>
      specialization for use in <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement>, because
        <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is exactly what is needed. As was the case in
        <xmlelement>yourtask</xmlelement>, the placement of <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> in
        <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> must also appear in a context that can be generalized back
      to <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> in <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. This is because the
      ancestry for <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is still <codeph>- topic/ol task/steps
        yourtask/yoursteps</codeph>, even though <xmlelement>yoursteps</xmlelement> is being used in
      the <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> specialization. If we allowed
        <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> to transplant specializations of
        <xmlelement>steps</xmlelement> anywhere they wanted in the <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement>
      model, then <xmlelement>mytask</xmlelement> would cease to be a valid specialization of
        <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. </p>
    <p>Although a well-designed structural specialization hierarchy with controlled use of domains
      is still the primary means of sharing and reusing elements in DITA, the ability to also share
      elements declared elsewhere in the hierarchy allows for situations where relevant markup comes
      from multiple sources and would otherwise be developed redundantly.</p>
  </conbody>
</concept>
