<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="subjectSchema" xml:lang="en-us">
    <title>Subject scheme maps</title>
    <shortdesc rev="targeted-review">Subject scheme maps use key definitions to define taxonomic
        subjects and collections of controlled values.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>classifying content</indexterm>
                <indexterm>controlled values<indexterm>classifying content for flagging and
                        filtering</indexterm><indexterm>definition
                        of</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>definitions<indexterm>controlled values</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>filtering and flagging<indexterm>classifying content
                    for</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>subjectScheme<indexterm>extending</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p><term>Controlled values</term> are keywords that can be used as values for attributes.
            For example, the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute can take a value that identifies
            the users that are associated with a particular product. Typical values for a
            medical-equipment product line might include "therapist", "oncologist", "physicist", and
            "radiologist". In a subject scheme map, an information architect can define a list of
            these values for the <xmlatt>audience</xmlatt> attribute. Controlled values can be used
            to classify content for filtering and flagging at build time. </p>
        <p rev="targeted-review"><term>Taxonomic subjects</term> are classifications and
            sub-classifications that compose a taxonomy tree. In conjunction with the classification
            domain, taxonomic subjects can be used for retrieval and traversal of the content at run
            time when used with information viewing applications that provide such
            functionality.</p>
    </conbody>
</concept>
