<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept
  id="vocabularymodules" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Vocabulary modules</title>
  <shortdesc>Vocabulary modules are units of XML vocabulary definition. A DITA element type or
    attribute is declared in exactly one vocabulary module.</shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <p>A given vocabulary module exists in an exclusive hierarchy relative to its ancestor modules.
      For example, the <xmlelement>concept</xmlelement> topic type is defined in the concept topic
      module and is itself derived from the topic topic module (that is, the topic-defining
      structural module that defines the topic type <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>). Likewise, the
        <xmlelement>task</xmlelement> topic type is defined in the task topic module and is derived
      from the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic type. Thus the concept and task topic types are
      children of the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic type in the module hierarchy rooted at
      the <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> topic vocabulary module.</p>
    <section>
      <title>Types of vocabulary modules</title>
      <p>There are three types of vocabulary module:<dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>structural module</dt>
            <dd>A vocabulary module that defines exactly one top-level map or topic type.  A
              structural modules is either a <term>topic vocabulary module</term> or a <term>map
                vocabulary module</term>.<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Topic vocabulary module</dt>
                  <dd>
                    <p>A vocabulary module that defines a single, top-level topic type that is
                      specialized from <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement> or a specialization of
                        <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>. It also can define new elements that are
                      intended for use within the new topic specialization.<draft-comment
                        author="Kristen Eberlein" time="22 February 2015"><p>Original wording: "A
                          topic vocabulary module </p><term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
                          >MUST</term> define exactly one top-level topic type."</draft-comment></p>
                    <draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="22 February 2015">
                      <p>Content added in 1.2 time frame</p>
                      <p>ROBERT, March 3: I've put the content back in there, as it's valid content
                        we discussed at today's TC, and highlights a point that needs to be made.
                        But I think it probably needs to move. It's really an edge case that really
                        cries out for an example, and should not be explained as part of the general
                        "what is a vocab module" item.</p>
                    </draft-comment>
                    <p>Topic vocabulary modules <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
                        >MAY</term> define additional topic types that are then allowed to occur as
                      subordinate topics within the top-level topic. However, such subordinate topic
                      types <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MAY NOT</term> be used as
                      the root elements of conforming DITA documents. For example, a given top-level
                      topic type may require the use of subordinate topic types that would only ever
                      be meaningful in the context of their containing type and thus would never be
                      candidates for standalone authoring or aggregation using maps. In that case,
                      the subordinate topic type can be declared in the module for the top-level
                      topic type that uses it. However, in most cases, potential subordinate topics
                      should be defined in their own vocabulary modules.</p>
                  </dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>Map vocabulary module</dt>
                  <dd>A vocabulary module that defines a single element type that is specialized
                    from <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>. It also can define new elements that are
                    intended for use within the new map specialization.<draft-comment
                      author="Kristen Eberlein" time="22 February 2015">Original wording: "A map
                      vocabulary module <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term>
                      define exactly one element type that specializes map."</draft-comment></dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl><p><ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">Structural modules also can define
                  specializations of, or reuse elements from, domain or other structural modules,
                  creating dependencies on these other modules.</ph></p></dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>element domain module</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>A vocabulary module that defines one or more specialized element types that can be
                used within maps or topics.</p>
              <p>Domain elements intended for use in topics <term outputclass="RFC-2119"
                  rev="terminology">MUST</term> ultimately be specialized from elements that are
                defined in the topic module. Domain elements intended for use in maps <term
                  outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> ultimately be specialized
                from elements defined by or used in the map module (maps share some element types
                with topics but no map-specific elements may be used within topics).</p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>attribute domain module</dt>
            <dd>A vocabulary module that defines exactly one specialization of either the
                <xmlatt>base</xmlatt> or <xmlatt>props</xmlatt> attribute.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p><!--All topic types <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> ultimately be specialized from <xmlelement>topic</xmlelement>. All map types <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> ultimately be specialized from <xmlelement>map</xmlelement>. Domain attributes MUST ultimately be specialized from either the base or props attribute.-->
      </p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Vocabulary module names</title>
      <p>For structural types, the module name <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
          >MUST</term> be the same as the root element. For example, "task" is the name of the
        structural vocabulary module whose root element is <xmlelement>task</xmlelement>. For
        domains, the name is assigned by the developer of the vocabulary module. By convention,
        domain names end with "-d" and are kept short; for example, "ui-d" for the user interface
        domain and "pr-d" for the programming domain. </p>
      <p>Each vocabulary module has an associated short name, which is used to identify the module
        in <xmlatt>class</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>domains</xmlatt> attribute values. While module names
        need not be globally unique, module names <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology"
          >MUST</term> be unique within the scope of a given specialization hierarchy. The short
        name <term outputclass="RFC-2119" rev="terminology">MUST</term> be a valid XML name token.
      </p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
