<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="lomStructure" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title><xmlelement>lomStructure</xmlelement></title>
	<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>lomStructure</xmlelement> provides learning metadata about the
		underlying organizational structure of the resource. </shortdesc>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>lomStructure</indexterm><indexterm>learning and training elements<indexterm>lomStructure</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<refbody>
		<section id="contains" conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-lomStructure/contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
		
		<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">
			<title>Inheritance</title><p>+ topic/data learning-d/lomStructure </p>
</section>

<example id="example"><title>Example</title>
<p>See <xref href="lcLom.dita#lcLom/example">lcLom</xref>.</p>
</example>

<section id="attributes">
<title>Attributes</title>
			<p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
					href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/>, <xref
					href="../attributes/commonAttributes.dita#common-atts/outputclass"/>, and the
				attributes defined below.</p>
			<dl>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>name</xmlatt></dt>
					<dd>The name used to indicate this data. The default value for this attribute is
						"lomStructure".</dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry>
					<dt><xmlatt>value</xmlatt>
						<ph
							conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/required-attr"
						/></dt>
					<dd>The learning structure for this content. Allowable values are "atomic", "branched",
						"collection", "hierarchical", "linear" "mixed", "networked", "parceled", or
							<xref href="../attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita"/>.<draft-comment
							author="robander" time="17 February 2014" disposition="accepted"
							>Notified TC: XSD has a mispelling of "branched", DTD is missing several
							values. Leaving all listed for now. UPDATE OCTOBER 9 2014: Need to find
							out if TC made a call on this one. UPDATE: TC decided to make all of
							these values legal. Note to TC:
							https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/email/archives/201402/msg00143.html
							Meeting minutes:
								https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201402/msg00201.html<p>Leaving
								this comment here until the grammar files have been
							updated.</p></draft-comment></dd>
				</dlentry>
				<dlentry conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/lomdatatype">
					<dt/>
					<dd/>
				</dlentry>
			</dl> 
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>

