<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="TopicDomains_TechnicalContent" xml:lang="en-us"> 
  <title>Topic domains: Technical content</title> 
  <shortdesc>A DITA domain defines a set of elements associated with a
	 particular subject area or authoring requirement. DITA incorporates several
	 domains into the Technical Content specializations. Other domains are
	 incorporated into basic DITA.
  </shortdesc> 
  <conbody>
		<draft-comment author="Kristen Eberlein" time="1 November 2014">
			<p>As I updated the table to include markup, SVG, and XML mention domains, I noticed
				that the file names for Schema, RNG, and RNC do not match what is currently in SVN.
				I suspect that the naming conventions for the files was changed at some point in the
				1.3 process.</p>
			<p>For DITA 1.2, the XSD file for the UI domain was <filepath>uiDomain.xsd</filepath>.
				For DITA 1.3, the file is named <filepath>uiDomainMod.xsd.</filepath></p>
			<p>All rows in the table use the DITA 1.2 naming conventions, except for the ones
				(markup, SVG, and XML mention) that I just added.</p>
		</draft-comment> 
	 <p>The elements in a domain are defined in a domain module which can be integrated with a topic
			type to make the domain elements available within the topic type structure. Currently
			the following domains are provided as part of the Technical Content specializations: </p> 
	 <table>
			<title>Technical content domains</title>
			<desc>DITA includes domain specializations that are especially useful for authoring
				technical content. The <ph rev="DITA1.2-errata">classification, highlighting</ph>,
				utilities, hazard statement, and indexing domains associated with Base DITA are
				described under DITA Markup. </desc>
			<tgroup cols="4">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1.26*"/>
				<colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="3.16*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
				<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3.14*"/>
				<thead>
					<row valign="bottom">
						<entry colname="col1">Domain </entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">Description </entry>
						<entry colname="col2">Short name </entry>
						<entry colname="col3">Module name </entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry colname="col1">Abbreviated form </entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For linking between a text reference to a
								<xmlelement>glossentry</xmlelement> topic. A specialization of
								<xmlelement>term</xmlelement> to provide an
								<xmlelement>abbreviated-form</xmlelement> element.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">abbrev-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>abbreviateDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>abbreviateDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>abbreviateDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>abbreviateDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>abbreviateDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111">
						<entry>Equation</entry>
						<entry>For containing equations and providing an integration point for MathML.</entry>
						<entry>equation-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>equationDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>equationDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>equationDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>equationDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>equationDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Glossary reference </entry>
						<entry>For linking from a term to its glossary topic. </entry>
						<entry>glossref-d </entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>glossrefDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>glossrefDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>glossrefDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema) 
<filepath>glossrefDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>glossrefDomain.rnc</filepath>(RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111">
						<entry colname="col1">Markup</entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing markup.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">markup-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>markupDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>markupDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>markupDomainMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>markupDomainMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>markupDomainMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13111">
						<entry colname="col1">MathML</entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For containing MathML markup.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">mathml-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>mathmlDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>mathmlDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>mathmlDomainMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
 <filepath>mathmlDomainMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>mathml3.rng</filepath>
<filepath>mathmlDomainMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry colname="col1">Programming </entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing programming and programming languages.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">pr-d </entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>programmingDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>programmingDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>programmingDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>programmingDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>programmingDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13102">
						<entry colname="col1">Release management</entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing release management metadata.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">relmgmt-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>releaseManagementDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>releaseManagementDomain.net</filepath>
<filepath>releaseManagementDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>releaseManagementDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>releaseManagementDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry colname="col1">Software </entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing software. </entry>
						<entry colname="col2">sw-d </entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>softwareDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>softwareDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>softwareDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>softwareDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>softwareDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13119">
						<entry colname="col1">SVG</entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For enabling use of SVG markup within DITA
							documents.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">svg-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>svgDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>svgDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>svgDomainMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>svgDomainMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>svgDomainMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					
					<row>
						<entry colname="col1">User interface </entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing elements in a user interface.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">ui-d </entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>uiDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>uiDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>uiDomain.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>uiDomain.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>uiDomain.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13035">
						<entry colname="col1">XML mention</entry>
						<entry colname="COLSPEC0">For describing XML constructions.</entry>
						<entry colname="col2">xml-d</entry>
						<entry colname="col3">
							<lines><filepath>xmlDomain.mod</filepath> (DTD)
<filepath>xmlDomain.ent</filepath>
<filepath>xmlDomainMod.xsd</filepath> (Schema)
<filepath>xmlDomainMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)
<filepath>xmlDomainMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG Compact)</lines>
						</entry>
					</row>
					
					
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table> 
	 <p>The technical content domain specializations, like all domain specializations, may be included
			in the DITA document types beyond those in the technical content section. The DITA
			document types in the technical content section make use of other domain specializations
			in addition to those listed in the table. </p> 
	 <p>The elements and attributes included in specific domain specializations are described in the
			domain elements of the DITA 1.2 Language Reference. </p> 
  </conbody> 
</concept> 
