<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_djr_5qt_rn">
  <title>Technical-content document-type modules</title>
  <shortdesc/>
  <refbody>
    <table frame="all">
      <title/>
      <tgroup cols="3">
        <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.0*"/>
        <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.0*"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Name</entry>
            <entry>Description</entry>
            <entry>Files</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Bookmap</entry>
            <entry/>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>bookmap.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>bookmap.ent</filepath>,
                    <filepath>bookmap.mod</filepath> (DTD)</sli>
                <sli><filepath>bookmap.xsd,</filepath>
                  <filepath>bookmapGrp.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>bookmapMod.xsd</filepath> (XML
                  Schema)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>bookmap.rng</filepath>,
                    <filepath>bookmapMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>bookmap.rnc</filepath>,
                    <filepath>bookmapMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact)</sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Concept</entry>
            <entry>The concept document type provides conceptual information designed to support the
              performance of tasks. Concepts might include extended definitions of terms,
              expositions of background information, descriptions of systems and objects, and other
              content that helps to build the users' understanding of the tasks to be
              perform.</entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>concept.mod</filepath>, <filepath>concept.ent</filepath> (DTD) </sli>
                <sli><filepath>conceptMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>conceptGrp.xsd</filepath> (XML
                  Schema) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>conceptMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>conceptMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG
                  compact) </sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>General task</entry>
            <entry>The general-task document type provides a less strict task model for
              task-oriented information than that provided in the strict task. Some organizations
              might prefer the general task model; it can facilitate the migration of legacy task
              content that does not follow the strict task topic model. The general-task document
              type serves as the base for the strict task and machine-industry-task document types. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>task.mod</filepath>, <filepath>task.ent</filepath> (DTD) </sli>
                <sli><filepath>taskMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>taskGrp.xsd</filepath> (XML Schema) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG
                  compact) </sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Glossary entry</entry>
            <entry>The glossary-entry document type enables authors to develop glossary topics that
              define terms, acronyms, and abbreviations. It also can contain terminology
              information. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>glossentry.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>glossentry.ent</filepath>,
                    <filepath>glossentry.mod</filepath> (DTD)</sli>
                <sli><filepath>glossentryMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>glossentryGrp.xsd</filepath>
                  (XML Schema)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>glossentry.rng</filepath>,
                    <filepath>glossentryMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>glossentry.rnc</filepath>,
                    <foreign>glossentryMod.rnc</foreign> (RELAX NG compact)</sli>
              </sl>
              <note>The <filepath>glossary.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>glossary.ent</filepath>, and
                  <filepath>glossary.mod</filepath> file are deprecated versions of the
                  <filepath>glossentry.dtd</filepath>., <filepath>glossentry.ent</filepath>, and
                  <filepath>glossentry.mod</filepath> files. The deprecated files are included to
                provide backward compatibility with DITA 1.0 and 1.1.</note>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Glossary group</entry>
            <entry>The glossary-group document type enables authors to incorporate multiple glossary
              entries in a single collection tile. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>glossgroup.dtd</filepath>, <filepath>glossgroup.ent</filepath>,
                    <filepath>glossgroup.mod</filepath> (DTD) </sli>
                <sli><filepath>glossgroup.xsd</filepath> (XML Schema)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>glossgroup.rng</filepath>,
                    <filepath>glossgroupMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>glossgroup.rnc</filepath>,
                    <filepath>glossgroupMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact)</sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Machinery task</entry>
            <entry>The machinery-task document type provides procedural information, similar to
              other task types; it has a well-defined semantic structure to meet the special
              requirements of organizations that develop instructional material for industrial
              equipment, such as trucks, mining machinery, and automobiles. The machine-industry
              task requirements domain adds several descriptive elements in the preliminary
              requirements (<xmlelement>prelreqs</xmlelement>) and closing requirements
                (<xmlelement>closereqs</xmlelement>) sections. The machinery-task document type is
              built by combining the general-task document type with the task requirements domain
              and the machinery <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> constraint. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>machineryTask.dtd</filepath>,
                    <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.mod</filepath> (DTD)</sli>
                <sli><filepath>machineryTask.xsd</filepath>,
                    <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd</filepath>,
                    <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraintIntMod.xsd</filepath> (XML Schema)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>machineryTask.rng</filepath>,
                    <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG)</sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>machineryTask.rnc</filepath>,
                    <filepath>machineryTaskbodyConstraint.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact)</sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Reference</entry>
            <entry>The reference document type provides for the separation of fact-based information
              from concepts and tasks. Factual information might include tables and lists of
              specifications, parameters, parts, commands, and other information that the users are
              likely to look up. The reference document type enables fact-based content to be
              maintained by those responsible for its accuracy and consistency. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>reference.mod</filepath>, <filepath>reference.ent</filepath> (DTD) </sli>
                <sli><filepath>referenceMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>referenceGrp.xsd</filepath>
                  (XML Schema) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>referenceMod.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>referenceMod.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG
                  compact) </sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Task (strict)</entry>
            <entry>The task document type provides procedural information to support the performance
              of a task. The task document type is built by combining the general-task document type
              and the strict <xmlelement>taskbody</xmlelement> constraint. This information model
              provides detailed semantics to encourage authors to label standard parts of the task,
              including prerequisites, sufficient conceptual information required to perform the
              task, the commands that introduce each step in a procedure, additional support
              information required to understand a step, the result of performing the task, and
              examples that demonstrate the performance of the task. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>task.mod</filepath>, <filepath>task.ent</filepath>,
                    <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.mod</filepath> (DTD) </sli>
                <sli><filepath>taskMod.xsd</filepath>, <filepath>taskGrp.xsd</filepath>,
                    <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd</filepath> (XML Schema) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rng</filepath>,
                    <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.rng</filepath> (RELAX NG) </sli>
                <sli rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13112"><filepath>taskMod.rnc</filepath>,
                    <filepath>strictTaskbodyConstraint.rnc</filepath> (RELAX NG compact) </sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Troubleshooting</entry>
            <entry>The troubleshooting document type provides markup for corrective action
              information such as troubleshooting and alarm clearing. The troubleshooting
              information type describes a condition or a symptom, after which it provides one or
              more possible causes and their associated remedies. Each remedy is a series of steps,
              associated with a cause, that attempts to resolve the condition or symptom. </entry>
            <entry>
              <sl>
                <sli><filepath>troubleshooting.mod</filepath>,
                    <filepath>troubleshooting.ent</filepath> (DTD)</sli>
                <sli><filepath>troubleshootingMod.xsd</filepath>,
                    <filepath>troubleshootingGrp.xsd</filepath> (XML Schema)</sli>
                <sli>(RELAX NG)</sli>
                <sli>(RELAX NG compact)</sli>
              </sl>
            </entry>
          </row>
         
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
  </refbody>
</reference>
