<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="resourceid" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element provides an identifier for applications
    that <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">must use their own identifier scheme, such as
      context-sensitive help systems and databases.</ph></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>appid attribute (resourceid)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>appname attribute (resourceid)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>attributes<indexterm>appid (resourceid)</indexterm><indexterm>appname
            (resourceid)</indexterm><indexterm>id (resourceid)</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>id attribute<indexterm>resourceid</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>prolog elements<indexterm>resourceid</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>resourceid<indexterm>appid</indexterm><indexterm>appname</indexterm><indexterm>id</indexterm><indexterm>overview</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">
      <p>The <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> attributes are available to
        associate an ID with an application. Multiple <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> values can be
        associated with a single <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> value, and multiple
          <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> values can be associated with a single <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt>
        value. Because the values for the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt>
        attributes work in combination to specify a specific ID for a specific application, each
        combination of values for the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> and <xmlatt>appname</xmlatt> attributes
        should be unique.</p>
      <p>Versions of DITA before 1.3 used the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute on the
          <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement> element to specify an ID for an external application.
        Beginning with DITA 1.3, this use of the <xmlatt>id</xmlatt> attribute is deprecated in
        favor of using the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
    </section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-resourceid/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">    <title>Inheritance</title> 
  <p>- topic/resourceid </p>   </section>
<example id="example" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>In the following example, user-assistance context hooks are applied to three topics that
        are referenced from a DITA map. The second topic has two hooks for the same topic.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;map title="Widget Help">
 &lt;topicref href="file_ops.dita" type="concept">
   &lt;topicref href="saving.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
     <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab12" appname="ua" appid="1234" ux-context-string="idh_filesave"
     ux-source-priority="topic-only" /></b>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
   &lt;topicref href="deleting.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
      <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab34" appname="ua" 
           appid="2345" ux-context-string="idh_filedelete" /&gt;</b>
      <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab56" appname="ua" 
           appid="6789" ux-context-string="idh_filekill" /&gt;</b>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
   &lt;topicref href="editing.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
       <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab78" appname="ua" 
            appid="5432" ux-context-string="idh_fileedit" ux-windowref="csh"  /&gt;</b>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
      <p>In the following example, a user-assistance context hook is defined in the prolog of a task
        topic. The context hook is made up of a context ID (value for <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt>
        attribute) and a context string (value for <xmlatt>ux-context-string</xmlatt> attribute). A
        user-assistance window profile is also referenced for this topic. </p>
      <codeblock>&lt;task id="fedt">
 &lt;title>Editing a File&lt;/title>
 &lt;prolog>
   <b>&lt;resourceid id="cd12" appname="ua" 
         appid="5432" ux-context-string="idh_fileedit" ux-windowref="csh" /></b>
 &lt;/prolog>
 &lt;taskbody>
  &lt;context>After you have created a new file, you can edit it.&lt;/context> 
  &lt;steps>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Open...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Edit...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Save...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
  &lt;/steps>
 &lt;/taskbody>
&lt;/task></codeblock>
    </example>
<section id="attributes">    <title>Attributes</title>
      <p>The following attributes are available on this element: <xref
          href="../attributes/universalAttributes.dita"/> (with a narrowed definition of
          <xmlatt>id</xmlatt>, given below) and the attributes defined below.</p>
      <dl>
        <!--<dlhead conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/attributeDlhead"><dthd/><ddhd/></dlhead>-->
        <dlentry id="id">
          <dt><xmlatt>id</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008 proposal-13060">Before DITA 1.3, this attribute
              specified a value that was used by a specific application to identify the topic. That
              usage is deprecated in favor of using the <xmlatt>appid</xmlatt> attribute.</ph>
            <ph conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/define-CDATA"/>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="appname">
          <dt><xmlatt>appname</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd><ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">A name for the external application that references
              the topic.</ph>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry id="appid">
          <dt><xmlatt>appid</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>An ID used by an application to identify the topic. </dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13060">
          <dt><xmlatt>ux-context-string</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Contains the value of a user-assistance context-string that is used to identify the
            topic.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13060">
          <dt><xmlatt>ux-source-priority</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>Specifies precedence for handling duplicate <xmlelement>resourceid</xmlelement>
            definitions that exist in both a map and a topic. This attribute is only valid when used
            within a <xmlelement>topicref</xmlelement> element in a map. Allowable values are
            topic-and-map, topic-only, map-only, map-takes-priority, topic-takes-priority, and
            -dita-use-conref-target.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13060">
          <dt><xmlatt>ux-windowref</xmlatt></dt>
          <dd>References the <xmlatt>name</xmlatt> attribute on the
              <xmlelement>ux-window</xmlelement> element that is used to display the topic when
            called from a help API.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>   </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

