<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="sectiondiv" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement></title>
<shortdesc>The <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element allows logical grouping of content within
    a section. There is no additional meaning associated with the
      <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element. The <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element
    does not contain a title; the lowest level of titled content within a topic is the section
    itself. If additional hierarchy is required, nested topics should be used in place of the
    section.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
        <indexterm>elements<indexterm>body<indexterm><xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>grouping
          elements<indexterm><xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
      <p>The <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element nests itself, so it can be specialized to
        create structured information within sections. Another common use case for the
          <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element is to group a sequence of related elements for
        reuse, so that another topic may reference the entire set with a single
          <xmlatt>conref</xmlatt> attribute.</p>
      <p rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13023">Because the <xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement> element allows
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement>, it cannot be used within
          <xmlelement>section</xmlelement> elements. Use the <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element to
        group content that might occur in both topic bodies and sections.</p>
    </section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-sectiondiv/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains"></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/sectiondiv </p></section>
<example id="example"><title>Example</title><p>In the example below, the <xmlelement>sectiondiv</xmlelement> element is used to group content
        that can be reused elsewhere.</p><codeblock>&lt;section>
  &lt;title>Nice pets&lt;/title>
  &lt;sectiondiv id="smallpets">
    &lt;p>Cats are nice.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Dogs are nice.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Friends of mine really love their hedgehogs.&lt;/p>
  &lt;/sectiondiv>
  &lt;sectiondiv id="biggerpets">
    &lt;p>Lots of people want ponies when they grow up.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Llamas are also popular.&lt;/p>
  &lt;/sectiondiv>
&lt;/section></codeblock></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title>
      <p conref="../../common/conref-attribute.dita#conref-attribute/universal-outputclass"/>
      </section>
</refbody>
</reference>

